Protesters thronged the streets in front of the US Supreme Court in Washington, for a second day after the conservative bench struck down the right to abortion Abortion rights defenders fanned out across America Saturday for a second day of protest against the Supreme Court's thunderbolt ruling, as state after conservative state moved swiftly to ban the procedure. The deeply polarized country woke up to a new level of division: between states that will now or soon deny the right to abortion, enshrined since 1973, and those that still allow it. After protests went late into the night, several hundreds of people thronged the streets outside the fenced-off Supreme Court again Saturday, in hot summer weather, carrying signs that read "War on women, who's next?" and "No uterus, No opinion." "What happened yesterday is indescribable and disgusting," said Mia Stagner, 19, a political science major in college. "Being forced to be a mother is not something any woman should have to do." Twin demonstrations were also getting under way in Los Angeles -- one headed to city hall and the other to the federal courthouse -- with dozens of smaller rallies planned from coast to coast. At least eight right-leaning states imposed immediate bans on abortion -- with a similar number to follow suit in coming weeks -- after the Supreme Court eliminated 50-year-old constitutional protections for the procedure, drawing criticism from some of America's closest allies around the world. Fueling the mobilization, many now fear that the Supreme Court, with a clear conservative majority made possible by Donald Trump, might next set its sights on rights like same-sex marriage and contraception. At the US Supreme Court in Washington protests were mostly peaceful -- barring the odd shouting match between abortion rights advocates and opponents President Joe Biden -- who has likewise voiced concerns the court might not stop at abortion -- spoke out again Saturday against its "shocking decision." "I know how painful and devastating the decision is for so many Americans," said the president, who has urged Congress to restore abortion protections as federal law, and vowed the issue would be on the ballot in November's midterm elections. Women in states that severely restrict abortion or outlaw it altogether will either have to continue with their pregnancy, undergo a clandestine abortion, obtain abortion pills, or travel to another state where it remains legal. "We are going to see some nightmare scenarios, sadly," Biden's spokeswoman Karine Jean Pierre told reporters on Air Force One, as the president headed to Europe for Group of Seven and NATO summits. "That is not hypothetical," she said.  - 'Women died getting abortions' -  Friday's demonstrations mostly passed off without incident -- although police fired tear gas on protesters in Phoenix, Arizona and in the Iowa city of Cedar Rapids a pickup truck drove through a group of protesters, running over a woman's foot. In Washington on Saturday the scene was once again mostly peaceful -- barring the odd shouting match between abortion rights advocates and opponents. Carolyn Keller, 57, who traveled all the way from New Jersey, said she was enraged by the ruling, warning: "They came after women. They will come after the LGBT community and contraception." But counter-protesters like Savannah Craven stood firm. "It's not a personal choice to have an abortion, it involves two people and unfortunately that choice ends in the ending of someone's life," she told AFP. As protesters like Craven made clear, while Friday's ruling represents a victory in the religious right's struggle against abortion, the movement's ultimate goal is a nationwide ban. Police officers holding batons and rubber-bullet guns prepare to disperse a crowd of abortion rights activists protesting after the overturning of Roe Vs. Wade by the US Supreme Court, in Downtown Los Angeles, on June 24, 2022 That goal is now within sight in about two dozen states which are now expected to severely restrict or outright ban and criminalize abortions. Missouri was first to ban the procedure on Friday, making no exception for rape or incest, joined as of Saturday morning by at least seven other states -- Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Oklahoma, South Dakota and Utah. In its ruling, the Supreme Court tossed out the argument in Roe v. Wade that women had the right to abortion based on the constitutional right to privacy with regard to their own bodies. Anti-abortion activists celebrate outside the US Supreme Court after it struck down the right to abortion Women in those states will either have to continue with their pregnancy, undergo a clandestine abortion, obtain abortion pills, or travel to another state where it remains legal. Several Democratic-ruled states, anticipating an influx of patients, have already taken steps to facilitate abortion and three of them -- California, Oregon and Washington -- issued a joint pledge to defend access in the wake of the court's decision. 'Tragic': Hundreds protest in St Louis as Missouri bans abortions  By Maria Danilova