Phil Mickelson has opted to join the Saudi-backed LIV Golf circuit. AFP/Sam Greenwood/Getty Images WASHINGTON - Phil Mickelson confirmed he has signed to play in the lucrative Saudi-backed LIV Golf Invitational Series, saying he also plans to play major events, including next week's US Open. The six-time major winner will be in the field of 48 at the controversial new tour's inaugural event in London this week. "I am ready to come back to play the game I love but after 32 years this new path is a fresh start," Mickelson wrote in a statement posted on Twitter. Mickelson later Monday told Sports Illustrated that he plans to play all eight LIV Golf events and compete in majors after talks with major sanctioning bodies. "I'm looking forward to playing the US Open," Mickelson told SI. "I'm under the understanding that I'm able to play." Mickelson told SI he will keep his US PGA Tour membership, unlike some who joined LIV Golf, but has not spoken with PGA Tour commissioner Jay Monahan or long-time rival Tiger Woods. "I'm uncertain how I will play given that I haven't played in a few months," Mickelson told SI. "But I'm optimistic." Mickelson has not played since the publication of comments in February where he criticized the PGA Tour and LIV Golf's Saudi backers. In an interview with author Alan Shipnuck, the 51-year-old American left-hander said the Saudi-funded LIV Golf was an opportunity to gain leverage over the PGA Tour. However, Mickelson described the new venture's backers as "scary" with a "horrible record on human rights," noting the death of US journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a Saudi consulate. "I certainly do not condone human rights violations. And addressing what happened to Jamal Khashoggi is awful," Mickelson told SI on Monday. "But I have seen the good that game of golf has done throughout history. And I really believe that LIV can be good for the game of golf as well." Mickelson, a 45-time winner on the PGA Tour, apologized when his original remarks were made public and took some "desperately needed time away" from golf, skipping the Masters and PGA Championship during his self-imposed exile. "There's a lot of things I regret," Mickelson told SI. "I made a lot of mistakes. I hurt a lot of people and I'm really sorry." Mickelson said in his statement that he remains in therapy. "Time away and self-reflecting has been very humbling," Mickelson said. "I still have a long way to go but I am embracing the work ahead."