Good riddance? The mocking tombstone for Microsoft's Internet Explorer in South Korea NEW YORK - From a grave "tribute" to a little-loved web browser to Sweden's saucy bins. Your weekly roundup of offbeat stories from around the world.  RIP Explorer So farewell then Internet Explorer, the Microsoft web browser has finally shuffled off to the digital hereafter. "He was a good tool to use to download other browsers," read the inscription on a gravestone a South Korean engineer made for its demise, prompted much hilarity online. Kiyoung Jung said Explorer -- widely reviled for its slowness and glitches -- had made his life a misery for years. South Korea remained bizarrely wedded to the 27-year-old navigator which was mandatory for online banking and shopping until about 2014, and remained the default browser for many government sites until very recently. Jung, who put up the joke tombstone in his brother's cafe, told AFP he would not miss having to get around the browser's many compatibility issues.  Hard rock The Icelandic Phallological Museum has a new star exhibit -- a plaster cast of rock legend Jimi Hendrix's pride and joy. Rock legend Jimi Hendrix: A little bit of his magic is holding up well in an Iceland museum Late US artist Cynthia Albritton, a self-styled "recovering groupie", made casts of the penises of some 50 rock gods. She had initially tried to mould the member of Hendrix's bass player Noel Redding, but it proved a flop. Jimi, however, was able to keep his end up. The museum also includes sources of local pride, such as bronzes of the genitalia of the entire Icelandic handball team that won a silver medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  You dirty bin... The speaking bins are part of an awareness campaign in Malmo to clean up public spaces There must be something in the northern air because bins in Sweden have become oddly seductive. "Aaah, that was really good" and "Do it again" they pant in breathy female tones when people put litter into them. The double entendres are part of a charm offensive to clean up the city of Malmo, with authorities hoping their sexy lady persona will work better than the previous messages barked out by a male electronic voice. Taking the Mickey? Disney is offering more wholesome fun to its fans, but at price that may make them blush. 'Disney Parks Around The World' will fly 75 mega-fans around the globe to its theme parks Its new round-the-world trip to all 12 of its theme parks from California to Shanghai starts at an eye-watering $110,000 per person. And no, there is no discount for children. But it does include stops at the real Taj Mahal in India and Egypt's Pyramids. The private jet taking the first 75 guests takes off in July 2023. Bucket list In Zimbabwe, they are redefining luxury. A top hotel there has become the butt of jokes for offering buckets of hot water to wash with after a power outage in the capital Harare. "If you require hot water for bathing please contact our housekeeping department and a bucket will be delivered to you," it told its high-paying guests.  Saddle sore Cheeky: People take part in the World Naked Bike Ride in London Hundreds took part in the World Naked Bike Ride there to show how vulnerable cyclists are on the streets of the British capital and to encourage body positivity. "I'm sure that some people here love bikes, some people... really love being naked, but a lot of people are kind of in the middle," said Keon West. Indeed middle bits were on many cyclists' minds as they daintily navigated the speed bumps and potholes of Central London.