Queen Elizabeth II will make two appearances on the balcony of Buckingham Palace on Thursday. AFP/Pool LONDON - Queen Elizabeth II will make two appearances on the Buckingham Palace balcony on Thursday, kicking off four days of public events to mark her historic Platinum Jubilee. The extent of the 96-year-old monarch's involvement in the celebrations for her record-breaking 70 years on the throne has been a source of speculation for months. She has had to cut back drastically her public appearances since last year because of difficulties standing and walking -- and a bout of Covid. But royal officials confirmed that she would take the salute of mounted troops from the balcony after a military parade called Trooping the Colour. The centuries-old ceremony to officially mark the sovereign's birthday has previously seen the queen take the salute on horseback herself. Her 73-year-old son and heir Prince Charles will step in this year, supported by his sister Princess Anne and his eldest son, Prince William. Joining senior royals watching the display of military precision will be Charles' younger son, Prince Harry, and his wife Meghan, on a rare visit from California, Buckingham Palace confirmed. But the queen's disgraced second son, Prince Andrew, is not expected to join them. Crowds have been steadily building on The Mall outside the palace for several days She will return to the balcony later to watch a fly-past of military aircraft, including iconic models from World War II, the palace said. At nightfall, the queen will be at Windsor Castle, west of London, to take part in a ceremony to light more than 3,000 beacons across the country and the Commonwealth of 54 nations that she heads. - Thank you - Elizabeth was a 25-year-old princess when she succeeded her father King George VI in 1952, bringing a rare touch of glamour to a battered nation still enduring food rations after World War II. Seventy years on, she is now the only monarch most Britons have ever known, becoming an enduring figurehead through often troubled times. Britain's first and very likely only Platinum Jubilee will see street parties, pop concerts and parades until Sunday in potentially the last major public celebration of the queen's long reign. It has not yet been confirmed if she will attend a thanksgiving service at St Paul's Cathedral on Friday, while her planned attendance at horseracing showcase The Derby on Saturday is off. She could yet put in a final appearance -- again from the palace balcony -- on Sunday, at the climax of a huge public pageant involving 6,000 performers. Elizabeth is the first British monarch in history to reign for 70 years on the throne and the celebrations have received blanket coverage In a message, the queen thanked everyone involved in organising community events in Britain and around the world. "I know that many happy memories will be created at these festive occasions," she said. "I continue to be inspired by the goodwill shown to me, and hope that the coming days will provide an opportunity to reflect on all that has been achieved during the last 70, as we look to the future with confidence and enthusiasm."