eNCA reporter Ronald Masinda has the details .#eNCA #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - The Human Rights Commission has given Stellenbosch University until 3 June to provide its findings into two alleged incidents of racism at the institution. Commissioner André Gaum has confirmed that one of the incidents involves Babalo Ndwayana who recorded Theuns du Toit urinating on his belongings. Student leaders say that Stellenbosch University management has only met two of their 15 demands and that the institution has not met the seven-day deadline to deal with student grievances. READ: More allegations emerge at Stellenbosch University Western Cape convener Sifiso Zungu said: "Another problem that we are facing with the university is simple as you have said that they are now speaking about a commission of inquiry. Yes, we are happy about that but that but they then have said that they will be selective in the demands that we submitted." Third-year student Kwenzokuhle Khumalo says many other students have been victims of systemic racism. Stellenbosch University wasn’t available for comment on its probe into the urinating incident but the management says it will establish a hotline for students to report any discrimination or wrongdoing at the institution." WATCH: Student leaders at Stellenbosch University not happy The SA Human Rights Commission says institutions must implement the necessary programmes to root out discrimination. "We should look at diversity from a broader perspective and unfortunately we still deal with lots of complaints that deal with unfair discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation so we do need to look at it holistically and therefore the diversity programme which is in the process of development by the vice-chancellor themselves is quite critical in taking us forward," Gaum said. The exams at Stellenbosch University are underway after student leaders asked management for a week's postponement. They say the recent protests and events mentally took a toll on students.