Toulouse's Australian lock Rory Arnold (C) runs with the ball during the French Top14 rugby union match between Stade Toulousain Rugby (Toulouse) and Biarritz Olympique at the Ernest-Wallon stadium in Toulouse. AFP/Fred Scheiber PARIS - Toulouse's Australia second-row Rory Arnold said he is looking forward to hosting a fellow Wallaby Test lock in La Rochelle's Will Skelton when they meet in the French Top 14's play-offs on Saturday. Arnold was replaced by 30-year-old Skelton in all three of the Wallabies' November internationals last year after first being involved together in the Green and Gold in 2016. "I've known Will for a number of years now. Off the field he's a really nice guy but on the field he's a big lump and likes to play on the edge," Arnold told AFP on Thursday. "He's a physical sort of player. Two different contrasts on and off the field. We'll see what happens when we lock horns this weekend." Arnold's side are unbeaten against this weekend's visitors to Stade Ernest-Wallon since September 2019, a run which included last term's Top 14 and European Champions Cup finals. This season champions Toulouse were knocked out of Europe by Leinster in the last four, but La Rochelle won the tournament by beating the Irish province late last month. "The way they play their rugby is with their forwards, that big power rugby, they like to play on the front foot with them. They did that in the final of the European Cup, and it worked well for them," Arnold said. "If we can shut their big ball carriers down that goes a long way to getting the result but we know we have to play well to go one step closer." On Sunday, Australia head coach Dave Rennie names his squad for July's three home Tests against England, but Arnold is unlikely to feature with the Top 14 season stretching onto late June. Additionally, Rennie announced this week that Quade Cooper, Marika Korobeite and Samu Kerevi would be his Giteau Law picks, as they play abroad, for the series. Arnold, who plays alongside twin brother Richie in the south of France, said he still hopes to feature for his country, especially with the 2023 Rugby World Cup on the horizon. "I'd love to be in that environment and that group," Arnold said. "I'm only getting older but I'm still keen to play international rugby and if called upon I'll definitely put my hand up."