One of the houseboats usually moored across one of the banks of the Nile river between the Zamalek district of Egypt's capital Cairo is towed away by authorities. AFP/Khaled Desouki CAIRO - Dozens of vibrantly coloured floating homes have for decades dotted the banks of the River Nile, rare havens of leafy seclusion in the Egyptian capital's hustle and bustle -- but maybe not for much longer. Residents of the 30 or so houseboats that remain moored on the banks of the Nile last week received eviction orders, giving them less than two weeks before their homes are taken away to be demolished. The boats have long occupied a special place in the Egyptian collective consciousness, having been the centrepiece of conversations in Nobel Prize laureate Naguib Mahfouz's "Chitchat on the Nile", as well as various classics from the golden age of Egyptian cinema. But while many have campaigned to protect the houseboats for their historic value, the authorities have argued they are an eyesore standing in the way of the state's grand development plans. Residents have been offered no alternative accommodation or compensation, unlike others who previously faced evictions, and many have nowhere else to go. Barely a week after the eviction order, some boats have already been towed off and impounded in a state marina, despite petitions and campaigning, even by pro-government television pundits. Soon, the sight of these houses, perched on metal caissons along the banks of the working-class neighbourhood of Imbaba opposite the upscale island of Zamalek, will only remain a memory. The first warning came in 2020, when the governor of Cairo "suspended new houseboat parking authorisations". Residents had since received no news, until the eviction order came on June 20, leaving them "with no time to file an appeal", according to one resident. The banks of the Nile were once among the few public spaces where residents of Cairo –- a sprawling megalopolis of more than 20 million people –- could escape the din. Dotted with cafes, visitors from across social strata would sip tea and juice by the water, for a modest price. On the opposite bank of the Nile, the development Mamsha Ahl Masr ("the Egyptian people's promenade" in Arabic) has drawn a lukewarm response. The promenade is heralded by the state as one of many "megaprojects" launched by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and executed by the army, the crowning jewel of which is a sparkling new capital, rising out of the sands 50 kilometres east of Cairo. But the promenade, with its restaurants, a planned marina and open-air theatre, will "guarantee public access to the Nile", the government insists.