Swimmers gather in the waters off Saint-Jean de Luz beach, south-western France, as heatwave conditions sweep across France and western Europe. AFP/Gaizka Iroz MADRID - Spain, France and other western European nations on Saturday sweltered under a blistering June heatwave that has sparked forest fires and concerns such early summer blasts of hot weather will now become the norm. Saturday's soaring temperatures were the peak of a June heatwave in line with scientists' predictions that such phenomena will now strike earlier in the year thanks to global warming. The popular French southwestern seaside resort of Biarritz saw its highest all-time temperature Saturday afternoon of 42.9 degrees Celsius, state forecaster Meteo France said as authorities urged vigilance from the central western coast down to the Spanish border. Many parts of the region surpassed 40C, although storms were expected for the late evening. The baking heat failed to put off heavy metal aficionados attending the Hellfest festival at Clisson on the outskirts of the western city of Nantes -- fans made a beeline for the few areas of shade available as temperatures soared beyond 40C. Temperatures passed 40 degrees in some parts of southwest France Queues of hundreds of people and traffic jams formed outside aquatic leisure parks in France, with people seeing water as the only refuge from the devastating heat. With the River Seine off-limits to bathing, scorched Parisians took refuge in the city's fountains. In a major incident in France, a fire triggered by the firing of an artillery shell in military training in the Var region of southern France was burning some 200 hectares of vegetation, local authorities said. "There is no threat to anyone except 2,500 sheep who are being evacuated and taken to safety," said local fire brigade chief Olivier Pecot. The fire came from the Canjeurs military camp, the biggest such training site in Western Europe. Fire services' work was impeded by the presence of non-exploded munitions in the deserted area, but four Canadair planes were deployed to water bomb the fires. - Foretaste of future - The UK recorded its hottest day of the year on Friday, with temperatures reaching over 30C in the early afternoon, meteorologists said. "I think at the moment people are just enjoying it being hot but if it gets any hotter than this, which I think it is meant to, then that's a concern," said Claire Moran, an editor in London. Several towns in northern Italy have announced water rationing and the Lombardy region may declare a state of emergency as a record drought threatens harvests. Italy's dairy cows were putting out 10 percent less milk, the main agricultural association, Coldiretti, said Saturday. Spain has been hit by a week-long heatwave, with temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius expected on Saturday With temperatures far above the cows' "ideal climate" of 22-24C, animals were drinking up to 140 litres of water per day, double their normal intake, and producing less due to stress, it said. Experts warned the high temperatures were caused by worrying climate change trends. "As a result of climate change, heatwaves are starting earlier," said Clare Nullis, a spokeswoman for the World Meteorological Organization in Geneva.