Artur Beterbiev batters Joe Smith Jr during his victory inside two rounds at Madison Square Garden on Saturday. AFP/Elsa/Getty Images Light-heavyweight world champion Artur Beterbiev knocked out American rival Joe Smith Jr. inside two rounds on Saturday to add the WBO title to his WBC and IBF belts. NEW YORK - The unbeaten 37-year-old Canada-based Russian scored three knockdowns and had Smith in deep trouble with just under a minute remaining in round two  before the fight was stopped. Beterbiev improves to 18-0 – all by knockout – and can now set his sights on a possible unification fight against Russia's WBA champion Dmitry Bivol for the undisputed light heavyweight crown. "Joe is a little bit open, and it was more easy for me to get him," Beterbiev said afterwards, before turning his attention to the prospect of a fight with Bivol. "I've had two unification fights and unification fights are more interesting," Beterbiev said. "I prefer to unify. I want to be undisputed." Smith, who was reportedly taken to hospital immediately after the bout and did not speak to media, meanwhile fell to 28-4 after the fourth defeat of his career. The 32-year-old American underdog, who also has 22 knockouts on his record, started aggressively but was quickly overwhelmed by his hard-hitting and skilful opponent. Beterbiev had Smith wobbling in the first round, connecting with a series of overhand rights. He had the American on the canvas early in what was ruled a slip rather than a knockdown. But he did not have long to wait for the first legitimate knockdown of the contest, once again a clubbing overhand right forcing Smith to take a standing count at the end of the first. After starting the second round in similar fashion, it was only a question of how long Smith would be able to cling on. Beterbiev scored two more knockdowns early in the round, almost sending Smith through the ropes with a flurry of vicious shots. He then uncorked a deadly combination of left uppercuts and a right to scramble Smith's senses further, leaving referee Harvey Dock no option but to call it off.