Christian Eriksen scored his 38th goal for Denmark on his return to the Copenhagen Stadium where he suffered a cardiac arrest last year COPENHAGEN - Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen scored Tuesday on his return to the Copenhagen stadium where he suffered a cardiac arrest last year. The Dane, wearing the captain's armband, struck in the 57th minute to round off Denmark's 3-0 friendly win against Serbia in the Parken Stadium where he collapsed and nearly died in a European championship match against Finland last June. "To come back to Parken and score a goal with the welcome I received, and still receive, is something that gives you goosebumps. It makes me incredibly happy," Eriksen told Danish television at the end of the match between two teams which have already qualified for this year's World Cup in Qatar. Joakim Maehle opened the scoring for Denmark after quarter of an hour with Jesper Lindstrom adding a second eight minutes after the break. Eriksen scored the third with a shot from outside the box for his 38th goal in 111 appearances. He was substituted after 80 minutes, leaving the field to a standing ovation and was later named man of the match. An emotional Eriksen, who has relaunched his club career with Brentford in the Premier League, stayed on the pitch long after the final whistle to greet the public. Eriksen scored on his return to the national team last Saturday in a 4-2 friendly defeat against the Netherlands in Amsterdam. But the return to Parken was always going to be special, both for the player and the fans. "It's going to be a magical moment for all the fans here today to see him walk into Parken and to resounding applause," fan Magnus Hall told AFP before kick-off. Taking to the pitch, Eriksen was handed the captain's armband and received a huge wave of applause from the home crowd. Denmark fans pay tribute to Christian Eriksen on his return to Copenhagen "Welcome home Eriksen" and "Welcome home Christian" banners were unfurled by fans as the players came onto the pitch at the capital's national stadium. The match was sold out, unheard of for a friendly match in Denmark for years. Eriksen had revealed his emotion on the eve of his return to the stadium where little more than nine months ago the Danish players had to form a circle to shield spectators' eyes as doctors worked to resuscitate him and millions of TV viewers watched in horror. "It's always been special to play in Parken but tomorrow it will probably be a little more special," the 30-year-old told Danish television. "It's a good end to a chapter but also the start of a new one". Following the cardiac arrest, Eriksen had a pacemaker implanted to regulate his heartbeat. He has performed strongly for Brentford since signing in January after being released by Inter Milan. cbw/map/ea/gj