CIRT’s revolutionary Q-Hop App has led to the company winning Brand South Africa’s Innovator of the Year Play Your Part Award JOHANNESBURG | 22 February 2022 - Consumption Information Real-Time (CIRT) has been announced as the winner of the Innovator of the Year Award in the ongoing Brand South Africa 2021 Play Your Part Awards. The organisation won due to the success of its app, Q-Hop, a contactless payment solution that showcases South Africa’s global competitiveness in the digital economy. By bringing a digital customer experience into a physical retail environment, Q-Hop has been designed to keep up with the fast-moving global retail environment. Co-founder of CIRT, Ajay Lalu, spoke on the remarkable story behind Q-Hop. “The Q-Hop solution was developed during a hard lockdown in South Africa entirely virtually and proudly using local technology,” said Lalu. The fact that such an inventive app was developed under unprecedented restrictions, is testament to South African resilience and innovative excellence. One of the Awards judges, Paul Modjadji, justified the decision in a statement saying, “This is a proudly South African tech giant, with humble beginnings and global aspirations. Technological innovation is at the forefront of their work.” Nominations for the remaining Play Your Part awards have now closed, and the judges are in the process of collating entries for the final 3 categories: Social Cohesion, Education, and Environment. Ends For daily insight on the Play Your Part Awards Follow BrandSouthAfrica on Twitter: @Brand_SA , @PlayYourPartSA.
Follow us on Facebook: Official Brand South Africa Visit: www.brandsouthafrica.com For more on the winner visit: https://i-lead.org.za  About CIRT  CIRT is in the business of data insights that enables large corporations to reduce costs or improve operational efficiency by using technology and data to make improved business decisions. CIRT's vision is to be an agile technology partner that provides world class solutions that solves real problems in a value adding way to enterprise customers around the world. Through our global strategic alliance with Microsoft and our other partners, we are able to offer cost-effective and cutting edge IoT solutions that provide a real return on investment.  About Brand South Africa Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship. About Play Your Part Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa.  It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live is good for everyone. Play Your Part is aimed at all South Africans – from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young.  It aims to encourage South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all.