David Bennett(right) had received his transplant on January 7 and  passed away March 8, University of Maryland Medical System said in a statement. AFP/University of Maryland Medical System MARYLAND - The first person to receive a heart transplant from a genetically modified pig has died two months after the medical milestone, the hospital that carried out the surgery said. The procedure raised hopes that advances in cross-species organ donation could one day solve the chronic shortage of human organs available for donation, and the team behind the operation say they are "optimistic" about its future success. David Bennett (57) had received his transplant on January 7 and passed away March 8, the University of Maryland Medical System said in a statement. "There was no obvious cause identified at the time of his death," a hospital spokesman told AFP, adding that physicians were carrying out a review that would be published in a scientific journal. Muhammad Mohiuddin, director of the university's cardiac xenotransplantation program, did however say in a video statement that Bennett was having "infectious episodes." "We were having difficulty maintaining a balance between his immunosuppression and controlling his infection," he said. READ: US surgeons implant pig heart in human Bennett's condition began deteriorating several days ago. After it became clear that he would not recover, he was given compassionate palliative care. He was able to communicate with his family during his final hours, a hospital statement said. Following surgery, the transplanted heart had performed very well for several weeks without any signs of rejection, the hospital added. Bennett was able to spend time with family, participated in physical therapy, watched the Super Bowl and spoke often about wanting to go home to see his dog Lucky. "He proved to be a brave and noble patient who fought all the way to the end. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family," said Bartley Griffith, the surgeon who led the procedure. Bennett came to the hospital in the eastern US state of Maryland in October 2021. He was bed-ridden and placed on an emergency life support machine. He had been deemed ineligible for human transplant -- a decision that is often taken when the recipient has very poor underlying health. Mohiuddin said that the team had "gained invaluable insights" from the experience, adding: "We remain optimistic and plan on continuing our work in future clinical trials."