Copies of the Dutch edition of Canadian author Rosemary Sullivan's "The Betrayal of Anne Frank" are on display in a bookshop in The Hague on February 2, 2022. Sem van der Wal / ANP / AFP THE HAGUE - A Dutch publishing house has pulled a new book alleging that a Jewish notary tipped off the Nazis to Anne Frank's hiding place, following criticism about the investigation on which it was based. Publisher Ambo Anthos said that it was pulling the Dutch edition of "The Betrayal of Anne Frank: A Cold Case investigation" by Canadian author Rosemary Sullivan with immediate effect. READ: Arrest made in Anne Frank diary vandalism case According to the book -- based on an investigation led by retired FBI detective Vince Pankoke -- notary Arnold van den Bergh may have revealed the Franks' hiding place in Amsterdam to the Nazis in a bid to save his own family. At a panel discussion in Amsterdam late Tuesday, experts complained that the investigation was based solely on hypotheses and an erroneous interpretation of the sources. "A number of prominent experts presented a very critical report on the investigation that is described in the book," Ambo Anthos said in a statement late Tuesday. "Based on the conclusions of this report, we have decided that effective immediately, the book will no longer be available," the statement added. "We will call upon bookstores to return their stock. We would once again like to offer our sincere apologies to everyone who has been offended by the contents of this book." Theories have long swirled about the Nazi raid on August 4, 1944, that uncovered the secret annexe to an Amsterdam canal-side house where Anne and her family hid for two years. Anne and her sister Margot died in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in 1945. Her diary went onto become one of the most haunting accounts of the Holocaust, selling some 30 million copies worldwide and translated into around 70 languages. Former FBI detective Pankoke was enlisted by a Dutch documentary maker in 2016 to head a team to solve the mystery as to who might have betrayed the Franks. The name of Van den Bergh, who died in 1950 of throat cancer, had previously received little attention. But it rose to the top of a list of four suspects during Pankoke's investigation, which used modern techniques including algorithms to find new links in troves of information and employed experts in various fields. Sullivan's book has faced serious criticism since it was published in January. The head of the Central Jewish Board of the Netherlands described the investigation's findings as "extremely speculative and sensationalist". US publishing house HarperCollins has not yet responded to a call by van den Bergh's granddaughter to suspend the book's international sales, local media reported.