 SPONSORED - “We have to start thinking like small business owners in order to truly provide the relevant products and support our clients need to succeed” - Faisal Mkhize, Managing Executive for Relationship Banking at Absa Retail and Business Bank  While the Small and Medium Enterprises sector has been pegged as a key driver in the recovery of the Covid-19 ravaged South African economy, the landscape for business owners can still be difficult to navigate – especially when it comes to access to funding and support. The SME sector was hard hit throughout the various waves of the pandemic, with many small enterprises having to reduce business activity, lay off staff and some having to close their doors completely. With this in mind, Absa is ramping up its offering to its SME clients through innovation and value-added product offerings – making this a key strategic pillar for the business in the next three years. Collaboration with expert partners in the digital space will be an important part of this commitment and the bank already announced one such collaboration in March 2022 - a market-first mobile payment acceptance solution developed in conjunction with technology firm WIZZIT Digital. The system enables Absa merchants to use their Android smartphones as a Point of Sale device by simply downloading the Absa Mobile Money App. This makes for a cost-effective way to facilitate contactless payments for SMEs. “Applying for business funding shouldn’t be any harder than applying for a car loan” says Faisal Mkhize, Managing Executive for Relationship Banking at Absa Retail and Business Bank “By speeding up and simplifying the digital application and approval processes, we hope to take frustration, red-tape and unnecessary delays out of the equation when small and medium sized business owners apply for loans” he continues. While digital innovation will help to remove a lot of the hurdles, Mkhize also believes that the importance of human interface should not be forgotten. This is why the bank has increased the number of small business advisors across the country. In its quest to truly deepen its relationships with SMEs, Mkhize believes that the bank itself must get closer to the action. Absa’s small business advisors will be spending a lot more time out in the field, visiting small businesses and talking to entrepreneurs to gain a better understanding of the challenges they face. Mkhize says this initiative will grow the bank’s ability to help co-solve problems and help businesses to rebuild and grow. To further bolster its commitment towards SME clients – Absa announced its Small Business Friday campaign – where Absa Rewards customers who shop at participating SME outlets on Fridays will earn double cash back when paying with an Absa card – thus encouraging South Africans to support Small and Medium Enterprises. Absa’s SME clients will be profiled on a dedicated Small Business Portal and receive cash rewards when they reach certain milestones across their Absa card machines for the month. “Beyond the loan – we want to provide support, advice and guidance where needed. If our SME clients succeed, so do we” Mkhize concludes.