File: Cyclists ride along Marina Bay overlooking the financial business district in Singapore. AFP/Roslan Rahman SINGAPORE - Singapore will lift restrictions for all vaccinated travellers from next week, with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong hailing it as a "major milestone" in the aviation hub's efforts to live with Covid-19. The city-state is the latest Asian country to ease travel restrictions in a region that has generally been more reluctant to lift barriers than Europe and North America. A gateway for many travellers arriving in the Asia-Pacific, Singapore had already started quarantine-free travel schemes with some countries in recent months. From April 1, fully vaccinated adults and unvaccinated children will be allowed to enter the country without quarantining, as long as they take a pre-departure test, officials said. READ: Hong Kong and Singapore virus response a tale of two very different cities Lee said Singapore had reached a "major milestone" in its efforts to live with the virus. Easing travel curbs will "reconnect Singapore with the world," he said in a televised address. "It will give a much-needed boost to businesses, particularly the tourism sector, and it will help Singapore reclaim its position as a business and aviation hub." Only travellers on a "restricted list" will face curbs in entering Singapore, although there are currently no countries on the list. READ: Singapore to curb arrivals from 7 African countries over variant A raft of other coronavirus measures were also eased, with people in Singapore no longer required to wear masks outside, and limits on group sizes raised to 10, up from five previously. The pandemic plunged Singapore into its worst-ever recession in 2020 as the trading hub closed its borders. International visitor arrivals dropped to just 2.7 million that year from more than 19 million in 2019. Other countries in the Asia-Pacific that have recently announced an easing of travel restrictions include Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and Malaysia.