Thousands of Ukrainians have fled to Poland, where authorities are now concerned about running out of space to accommodate refugees. Siphamandla Goge is at the Korchova refugee reception centre there. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - "Whatever the outcome, this war will have no winners, only losers.” These are emotive words from the UN's Secretary-General António Guterres, addressing the Security Council about Russia's invasion of Ukraine.    Nearly two million Ukrainians are homeless in their own country, while nearly three million have sought refuge in neighbouring states. It's estimated the number of refugees may top four million. #eNCA takes a look at the numbers in neighbouring countries. #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/CTGxosLoeZ  Almost 2 million Ukrainians are now homeless in their own country, while nearly 3 million have sought refuge in neighbouring states. It is estimated the number of refugees may top 4 million. READ: War in Ukraine | WATCH | Parliament debate Poland has taken in around 1.7 million refugees from its war-torn neighbour. And the numbers continue to rise as more and more people stream across the border. In Romania, the Balkan nation has taken in just under 500,000 people so far. It has set up six refugee centres across the country. The Republic of Moldova has opened its borders as well. Since 24 February, it has received around 350,000 refugees. Not all of them have stayed - many are passing into neighbouring states. Hungary is also receiving refugees from Ukraine. So far, over 260,000 people have crossed its border. Again, many here are using it as a transit route, with hopes of settling in more immigrant-friendly countries. Slovakia has seen refugees enter from three different border crossings. As people stream in daily, aid workers say they arrive hungry and traumatised but determined. Since the start of the war, over 200,000 people have entered Slovakia. It has been a different story in Ukraine's northern neighbour Belarus. The country has faced criticism and some sanctions from world leaders for its part in the invasion. It hosted Russian troops for weeks before the Ukraine invasion. Unsurprisingly, it has only received just over a thousand refugees.