Former Social Development Minister and ANC Women's League president, Bathabile Dlamini has been sentenced to four years in prison or a R200,000 fine for perjury. eNCA's Heidi Giokos joins Shahan Ramkissoon to discuss the matter. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Bathabile  Dlamini has opted to pay a fine rather than serve jail time after she was sentenced to either a suspended four years' imprisonment or a R200,000 fine, also suspended. The former Social Development minister was found guilty in early March of perjury. The court found that Dlamini lied under oath during an inquiry looking into the social grants debacle of 2017. READ: Bathabile Dlamini sentenced to 4 years imprisonment or fine Dlamini lied under oath during an inquiry looking into the social grants saga in 2017. Magistrate Betty Khumalo said, “the accused is accordingly sentenced to R200 000 fine or four years imprisonment half of the sentence is suspended for a period of five years on condition that the accused is not convicted of perjury and Section 38 of the superior court.”
The court reiterated the point that Dlamini is a public servant. With many communities looking up to her. Magistrate Khumalo says a conviction of perjury should never be taken lightly. Dlamini was ordered to pay 20-percent of the suspended fine before she was allowed to leave the court. When she eventually paid, her supporters were waiting outside for her. Suspended ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule says Dlamini is being targeted. He said, “the case against Bathabile is to ensure that she is not the president of the women’s league. Before even the Magistrate's court was in session, people arrived before two-three weeks ago asking Bathabile to step aside." "And the Women's League National Working Committee and Women's League National Executive Committee defended Bathabile. Bathabile must tell all of you and not keep quiet when they say she must resign and be kicked out from the ANCWL, so that you know them. We are tired of defending people who were not even there during the revolution of struggle." Dlamini thanked ANC members for coming there and showing their support. She said, “there are comrades who came to deliver prayers. Comrade Esther and the Tshwane chairperson left after 12PM. Thank you, comrades. Comrade Ace is correct. Those who know me, know that I take time to believe things that are said about people." "I believe in giving people the benefit of the doubt. When you’re a leader, you have to try by all means to hear both sides. The time has come Comrade Ace. I am happy because it revealed itself and we saw it with our own eyes. As we’re gearing up for the ANC conference, my priority is our women.“ It is not yet clear what action the ANC will take against Dlamini as the party’s policy is clear that  those who are either charged or convicted of a crime must step aside. Dlamini has until the end of April to pay the remainder of the fine, which is R80,000.