Alison Lee chips out of a trap. AFP/Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images LOS ANGELES  - Alison Lee, a former standout at the University of California at Los Angeles, fired five birdies in a five-under-par 66 to seize the first-round lead in the LPGA's LA Open. Lee, buoyed by the presence of friends and family at Wilshire Country Club, had little trouble with the breezy weather in her bogey-free round. "I feel really comfortable," Lee said. "I would say it's not so much the course, but just being in LA, seeing a bunch of familiar faces out there." Lee, 27 and chasing a first LPGA title, picked up birdies at the sixth and seventh on the front nine, and after a birdie at the par-three 12th put together another pair on the 15th and 16th. She kept her card clean with par saves at 17 and 18, firing out of a bunker for a tap-in at the last. Fellow American Emma Talley, Japan's Nasa Hataoka and Denmark's Emily Kristine Pedersen were a stroke back on 67. Talley briefly led on five-under, but she dropped a shot at her penultimate hole, the eighth. Hataoka capped her round with her seventh birdie of the day on 18 to get off to a solid start in search of a sixth LPGA title. “Wilshire is not an easy course,” Hataoka said. “Four-under is a pretty good start for me.” Pedersen had five birdies and a bogey. The 23-year-old is winless on the tour. "I think you need a bit of confidence going into this course," Pedersen said. “There are a few tight drives, a bit quirky shots into the greens where you really have to be on the right angle and just commit to the shots." South Korea's Kim Sei-young and Ryu So-yeon were in a group on 68 along with Americans Jennifer Song, Janie Jackson, Dewi Weber and Haylee Harford. World number one Ko Jin-young opened with a 71 while defending champion Brooke Henderson of Canada, playing alongside South Korea's Ko, struggled to a 76 that featured a triple-bogey on the par-three fourth. Amy Olson enlivened the opening round with a hole-in-one on the par-three 18th to cap a 75. "We had wind heading off of the left and I kind of threw my eight-iron up there, tried to draw it into the wind," Olson said. "Happy with the good ending."