 SPONSORED: u want to meet someone, there's an app or site for that. And if you're looking for a hookup rather than a relationship, there's no shame in that either. Casual dating is the newest trend, after all. When it comes to finding a good hookup app, there are a few things to look for. This article will give you our top picks for casual dating in 2022. Read on to find out the advantages, disadvantages, and our take on the latest dating craze. 1. Adult FriendFinder - Best Hookup Site Overall Pros: Cons: Pricing: AdultFriendFinder is an OG in the online hookup game. Founded in 1996, this Xbiz award-winning site has been an industry leader in adult dating for over 25 years. With over 80 million members, AdultFriendFinder is one of the most visited adult dating sites worldwide. So what sets this site apart from the rest? The answer is simple – it's all about hooking up. So whether you're on the prowl for a one-time hookup or a friends with benefits situation, AdultFriendFinder has what you're looking for. When we signed up, the process was quick and easy. We created a profile, uploaded photos, and started checking out potential matches in minutes. Standard users are given access to basic search filters like gender, age, location, and intent. Premium accounts can search by language, distance, body type, and much more. There is no shortage of features on this site. Chat rooms, live videos, and virtual gifts keep things interesting by giving users a variety of ways to connect. We don't think AdultFriendFinder has the most dynamic interface, but it's still pretty straightforward to use. The free app packs a lot of punch and is a great way to get started with the site. The only downside is that some of the features are locked behind a paywall. However, given the massive user base, we think it's worth upgrading to a premium account. You'll need to beware of fake profiles and scammers, but luckily they're pretty easy to spot. Plus, AdultFriendFinder's excellent customer service makes sure to keep your safety and security in check. Keeping all of this in mind, we think AdultFriendFinder is one of the best adult dating sites around. If you're looking for a no-strings-attached situation, AFF is the place to be. Pros: Cons: Pricing: Ashley Madison is our go-to site for hooking up. So if you're looking to add a little excitement to your life, this is the perfect place to do it. Whether you're in a relationship and looking for some fun on the side, or you're single and ready to mingle, Ashley Madison has everything you need. The signup process is simple, and you can be up and chatting with potential partners in no time. With a massive user base of over 60 million singles and couples alike, we think there's someone for everyone. Ashley Madison's search features are also top-notch. You can search for partners based on their location, interests, and even what type of relationship they're interested in. What's more, the site is 100% confidential and discreet. Your privacy is always a priority, and we love Ashley Madison's dedication to keeping things on the down-low. It won't cost you anything to sign up or browse. Plus, the site is 100% free for women. So if you're not ready to commit to a full-fledged online dating platform, Ashley Madison is a great option. The site itself is gorgeous, and there's an app to make connecting with matches easy even on the go. Usability is essential for the best online dating sites, and Ashley Madison hits the nail on the head. The only downside is that you have to pay to send messages to other users. However, if you're looking for a site that's worth your money, Ashley Madison is it. With direct messaging and virtual gifts, you'll be able to chat and flirt with potential partners to your heart's content. Plus, the ability to send a variety of media is a great way to get to know your matches. Overall, Ashley Madison has thought of everything when it comes to making sure you have a good time. Because of this, we believe it is the best online dating site around – no matter what your needs may be. Pros: Cons: Pricing: If luxury dating is the latest trend, then Seeking is the site to join. This site offers millionaires and successful singles an unmatched dating experience complete with drop-dead beautiful women. By pairing sugar babies with rich partners, Seeking corners the market on wealthy hookup sites. Plus, it does so in style. And to be honest, we wouldn't expect anything less from such an elite dating network. The signup process is easy, but identity verification takes a bit longer than the other sites we've tested. However, once you're in, you'll have access to the site's massive pool of beautiful and wealthy singles. You can search by location, age, interests, and more. Plus, even basic users can view photo galleries and see their top matches. And with over 20,000,000 available singles at your fingertips, you're sure to find someone you'll click with. But to enable full usability of the site, an upgrade is required. Seeking might be one of the most expensive hookup options, but it caters to a client base that is looking for quality and security above all else. Seeking's site design is sleek and modern, making it easy to navigate. The app is also available on iOS and Android devices for mobile users to match up no matter where they are. We love that Seeking takes safety and discretion seriously. Plus, the customer service team is always on hand to help with any questions or problems you may have. We think this network offers an excellent online hookup experience for men and women. While Seeking prioritizes financial arrangements, it also doubles as an excellent platform for casual hookups. Pros: Cons: Pricing: Looking for a date? A hook-up? Or just a friend? Reddit's got you covered with its r4r (Redditor for Redditor) subreddit. Reddit's free, no-strings-attached hookup forum is one of our fav spots for finding someone to get busy with. This section of the site is made up of personal ads, where users post about their interests, availability, and what they're looking for. It's similar to other dating websites – users can peruse listings and comments to see if there's someone they want to get in touch with. And we love that posting, browsing, and commenting are all completely free. All you need to get started is a Reddit account. Once you've signed up, you'll create a personals style post with basic info about yourself and what you're looking for. Once your post is live, other users can comment or message you if they're interested. And because there are so many active users, you're almost guaranteed to find someone who interests you. There's no need for a separate registration, profile photos, or even email addresses – jump in and start chatting. It doesn't get much easier than that! However, the site does lack some basic search filters. You can only search by keywords like location or gender - making it difficult to find what you're looking for. There are also no photo galleries, so you'll have to rely on user comments and descriptions to get a sense of who they are. But for general dating, hooking up, or finding friends, it's a great option. Over 10,000 people jump on this subreddit every day, so it's a highly active community of users. But because there's no way to make your post stand out, it can be hard to get noticed. However, since it's free to use, you can always experiment without getting too bogged down in the details. Pros: Cons: Pricing: As a mainstream online dating site, FriendFinder offers an easy social media style experience, complete with member blogs and photos. If you've ever used personals-style dating sites before, FriendFinder will feel very familiar. This site is all about hookups, plain and simple. With over 90,000 active users, there are many people to chat with at any given moment. Registration is free and takes just a few seconds, but FriendFinder profiles require approval that can take anywhere from 12 to 72 hours. Personally, we weren't thrilled about this bit as the delay is kind of a buzzkill. However, once you're approved, the site is easy to navigate and use. Plus, FriendFinder's app has the same features as the desktop site and is available on both iOS and Android devices. We love that FriendFinder offers a free basic account so you can test out the waters before diving in. However, because of the high volume of fake profiles, we wouldn't recommend this site to anyone looking for a serious or committed relationship. Some of the stand-out features are personal blogs and member photo galleries. They're great ways to showcase who you are and what you're into. Plus, they provide a little bit of personality to the site that we really enjoyed. Free accounts have access to browsing and some other basic matching features. However, you will have to upgrade to one of their paid accounts to communicate and connect. Gold and silver members unlock more matches, the ability to view member videos, and quicker profile reviews. Essentially, you'll get more views and more attention with premium-level accounts. If you're looking for the easiest way to hook up online, FriendFinder is a simple and straightforward option. Plus, the extra bells and whistles create an experience that's certainly worth your time and money. Pros: Cons: Pricing:  Casual dating and hooking up can be a great way for people to explore their sexuality in a safe and accepting environment. Whether you're looking for a one-time fling or something more committed, there are plenty of options available. FetLife is a social network for people with kinks and fetishes. It's been called "Facebook for kinksters," and for good reason. FetLife is a diverse community of members with explicit sexual fascinations who love to share their fantasies on the site. With over 6 million like-minded people on the network, there will always be someone who shares your interests or tastes in sexual desires. And while it's not specifically intended for casual dating or hooking up, FetLife is great for those looking to explore their kinky side. Registration is easy and offers a completely inclusive experience for all genders. You can be as open and expressive as you want without feeling judged or shamed. This site is ideal for anyone who wants to explore their sexual desires in a safe and accepting environment. Even though the network isn't exclusively for kinksters, it's undoubtedly the most popular destination for those who identify with the community. FetLife is free to join and offers a variety of features for its members. You can browse profiles, read blogs, watch videos, and even join in on real-time chat rooms. And while you don't need to spend any money to use FetLife, some premium features cost extra. For example, you can upgrade to a premium account to remove ads, get exclusive content, and more. 7. Bumble - Best Hookup Site that Works for Women Pros: Cons: Pricing:  Bumble is the perfect casual dating app for women who want to take control of their love lives. Here, women can make the first move. Then, if the guy they like responds, the conversation can proceed. With over 12 million users, Bumble has quickly become the go-to dating app for women of all ages. And it's no wonder why. Bumble is safe, easy to use, and fun. Plus, it offers a host of features that make it stand out from other dating apps. One of our favorite things about Bumble is its mobile app. It's one of the few dating apps that is actually designed for women. The app is free to download and use. However, if you want to enjoy all the features, you'll need to upgrade to a premium account. With a premium account, you'll get access to unlimited swiping, increased visibility, and an overall better user experience. We also find upgrading makes it much easier to match with other users. While Bumble isn't explicitly designed for hooking up, you'll still find plenty of users who are interested in casual dating. Just be clear about what you're looking for in your profile. This helps narrow down your matches and ensures that you're only interacting with people who are interested in the same things as you. No need to waste time! Pros: Cons: Pricing: Pure is a pretty new app that's been dubbed Tinder's biggest competition. With a strong focus on hooking up, Pure is quickly becoming the go-to app for singles who want to casually date. What makes the Pure app so great? It's totally anonymous and effortless to use. Plus, it's free for women! Guys have to pay a small fee to use the app, but we think this helps weed out all of the creeps. We love the ability to focus on nearby encounters. The geo-filters are a clutch for finding local matches. When you set a distance limit, you'll only see users who are close by. While the app is technically free, some upgraded features cost extra. For example, instant chat is available to premium members and allows you to communicate with users without waiting for a mutual like. Women can communicate for free, increasing the opportunities for men to meet available ladies. We also like that Pure is totally anonymous. You don't need to provide any personal information to use the app. This helps keep your identity safe and secure, which is vital in 2022. While there are certainly some fake profiles on Pure, we think it's one of the more sex-positive adult hookup apps available today. So if you're looking for a no-strings-attached hookup, the Pure app is the place to do it. Pros: Cons: Pricing: OkCupid is the perfect place to find someone who understands you. With over 50 million users, it's one of the most prominent players in the game. We love that OkCupid offers a more casual dating experience than other apps. And with success in countries across North America, Europe, and Asia, it makes our list as the best international option for hook-up sites. Sign-up is easy and offers a dating persona test to help you find your ideal match. You can have your profile online in just a few minutes and then quickly browse through photos and profiles of potential partners. OkCupid offers both desktop and mobile experiences. We also like that it's not just for dating but can be used for finding friends or business contacts as well. One of our favorite things about OkCupid is the ad-free upgrades. If you're looking to get rid of ads, upgrade to a basic or premium account. This also unlocks other nifty features, including Dealbreakers and unlimited likes. On the downside, there are a lot of fake profiles on OkCupid. But as with any free dating site, that's to be expected. Overall, we think OkCupid is an excellent option for anyone looking for international casual dating. Pros: Cons: Pricing: Zoosk is a fast-paced environment for singles looking to date. With singles in over 80 countries and 25 languages spoken, Zoosk offers the most diverse pool of potential matches. We love the mobile app that makes it easy to date on the go. You can search for matches, view photos, and send messages -  no matter where you are. Signing up only takes a couple of minutes, and you can start looking for matches right away. We especially love the ease and simplicity of the registration process. Zoosk also offers search alerts. Simply set your preferences to receive notifications when someone new joins who matches your interests. This makes it easy to connect with new people without constantly checking the site. While we appreciate Zoosk's diverse membership, we don't love the outdated design. It could use an update to keep it as modern and sleek as our other top picks. But when it comes down to brass tacks, Zoosk gets the job done. Because of that, there are over 35 million registered accounts on this massive dating site and millions of messages sent every day. We don't think casual dating should be time-consuming or difficult. And Zoosk has an edge on helping people hook up! Pros: Cons: Pricing: Alt.com is the world's largest bondage and fetish dating community. If you are someone who has an appetite for something a little different in the bedroom - whether as a beginner or someone more experienced - Alt.com is the right place for you. Alt.com's members are fans of erotic role-playing and love experimenting with new things in bed. Some enjoy being dominant, while others prefer to be submissive. No matter your preference, Alt.com will cater to your wants and needs. The 5 step registration process is free, but you'll need proof of identity to get started. As well as being completely gender inclusive, there are also signup options for singles, couples, and groups. The chat rooms are a great place to start, and there are plenty of them to choose from. You can also watch live webcams and join the conversation with Alt.com's models. As a free member, you won't be able to send or read messages. In order to unlock all contact options, you must upgrade your account. But if you're looking for a site with a more discreet fetish focus, Alt.com is an excellent option. However, we didn't love the slow customer service. And there were also a high number of scam profiles, which is always frustrating. But, all in all, Alt.com is a fun site for those looking for an intimate and discreet fetish dating experience. There are a lot of different websites for hooking up out there, so you may need to try a few before you find the one that's right for you. Different sites cater to different audiences, so know what you're looking for and be sure you're looking in the right places. If you're only looking for a one-night stand, make sure that both you and the person you're talking to are on the same page. Be clear about your expectations and limitations, and be respectful of theirs as well. Nobody wants to feel like they're being used, so be upfront and honest about your intentions. Always know your boundaries and respect your partner's consent at all times. A little bit of culture never hurt anyone. If you're looking to take your date up a notch, why not try something like an art museum or a wine tasting? Respect and consideration go a long way when you're hooking up with someone. It shows that you value them as a person, which definitely makes the connection more intense. Alcohol can muddy the waters of consent and often leads to unsavory encounters. So protect yourself and your partner by steering clear of booze when you're looking to hook up. Everyone's safety is of utmost importance, so make sure you take precautions when hooking up with someone from the internet. Consider meeting in a public place and always use protection when engaging in casual encounters.  The app should have a large user base, so you're more likely to find someone that's right for you. Plus, it should be affordable. Nobody wants to spend a fortune on something they're not even sure will work! And finally, It should also be easy to use and have a discreet interface – nobody wants their friends or family to know they're using a hookup app. Ashley Madison has the most discreet hookup site we've seen, which is why it's our top choice overall. There are a few advantages to visiting the best casual dating sites: Always take precautions when talking to someone online and be vigilant about who you're interacting with. This is a great way to ensure that someone on an online hookup site is not scamming you. Sites like Seeking and FriendFinder require identity verification. This means that the person you're talking to is who they say they are. If someone seems too good to be true, they probably are. Don't be afraid to walk away if something feels off. Trust your gut instinct – it's usually right. If your partner uses a discreet hookup site like Ashley Madison, it won't be easy to track their activity without signing up yourself. However, if you suspect that your partner is cheating, there are a few things you can do to try and confirm your suspicions: All of the sites in our top picks are the best hookup sites for a variety of reasons. However, in our experience, Ashley Madison offers more of the features we look for when hooking up. Sites like AdultFriendFinder and Seeking also have a lot to offer. So it really comes down to personal preference. Reputable hookup sites and apps are 100% safe. Your privacy and security are always a top priority. However, it's important to note that not all hookup apps are created equal. There are a few unscrupulous sites and apps out there, so be vigilant about who you're interacting with. Stick to the reputable sites and apps we recommend, and you'll be fine. Free hookup sites lack the necessary features and security that paid hookup sites offer. Premium sites are more likely to have the features you need, and they're much safer to use.  According to a PhiladelphiaWeekly article  paid sites have a much higher success rate.  In a survey of 267 men.  Seeking had a 67% hookup rate and Ashley Madison had a 58% hookup rate. Compared to free apps like Tinder which only had a 13% success chance on average. While most sites offer free registration, you will need a credit card to access upgrades. However, Reddit r4r is 100% free to use and communicate with other users. So what does the future of dating look like? It looks a lot like casual dating. Sites and apps geared towards finding someone for a quick fling are on the rise, and there's no shame in using them. Ashley Madison offers the most discreet hookup experience, and AdultFriendFinder is great for those who are looking for something a bit more naughty. If you're unsure which site is right for you, check out our in-depth reviews to learn more about each one. In addition, Reddit r4r, OkCupid, and Zoosk offer free accounts for testing the waters - so you can find the right site for you. There's no reason not to hook up in 2022, and there's no shortage of great sites to choose from. So get out there and have some NSA fun while you still can!