Actor Johnny Depp testifies at his defamation trial against his ex-wife Amber Heard. AFP/Pool WASHINGTON - Lawyers for Amber Heard on Monday ended their marathon grilling of Johnny Depp at his defamation trial against his former wife by playing audio recordings of heated arguments between the couple. Recordings were played for the seven-member jury hearing the case in Fairfax County Circuit Court. Depp has denied ever being physically abusive towards Heard and has claimed repeatedly at the trial that she was the one who was frequently violent. Depp filed a defamation suit against Heard over a column she wrote for The Washington Post in December 2018 in which she described herself as a "public figure representing domestic abuse." READ: Johnny Depp says ex-wife Amber Heard would insult, throw things at him Heard never named Depp but he sued her for implying he was a domestic abuser and is seeking $50 million in damages. The Texas-born Heard countersued, asking for $100-million and claiming she suffered "rampant physical violence and abuse" at his hands. Depp, a three-time Oscar nominee, and Heard met in 2009 on the set of the film "The Rum Diary" and were married in February 2015. Their divorce was finalised two years later. Heard's attorneys have alleged that Depp would become a physically and sexually abusive "monster" when he was drunk or on drugs, and pressed him extensively about his drug and alcohol use during his three days of cross-examination on the witness stand. READ: Johnny Depp testifies in defamation trial against ex-wife "If anyone had a problem with my drinking, at any time in my life, it was me," Depp said. "The only person I've ever abused in my life is myself." After Depp finished testifying, his attorneys called as a witness Ben King, an Englishman who managed the home where the couple stayed in Australia during the 2015 filming of the fifth installment of the "Pirates" franchise. Much of the testimony at the trial has revolved around an incident that occurred there in which the tip of the middle finger of Depp's right hand was severed. READ: Jury selection begins in US defamation case between Johnny Depp, Amber Heard Depp told the jury it happened when Heard threw a vodka bottle at him, smashing the finger against the edge of a bar in the house. Heard's lawyers suggested that Depp cut it with a knife in the kitchen. King's testimony appeared to back up Depp's account. The house manager said he found the severed fingertip in a tissue on the floor of the bar along with a broken bottle of Stolichnaya vodka. He said a "big chunk" of the marble bartop had been broken off.