The state capture report states GCIS chief, Mzwanele Manyi, dished out millions in advertising to Gupta-owned, TNA media. The report found he was an enabler of State Capture. Manyi responds to the allegations with eNCA's Faith Mangope. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Former GCIS chief Mzwanele Manyi has denied that he enabled state capture as found by the state capture inquiry report. Part one of the three-part report was released on Tuesday. Manyi is accused of dishing out millions in advertising to Gupta-owned TNA media. WATCH | Unpacking Volume 2,3 of the State Capture report or State Capture report Manyi was a Gupta employee and eventually went on to buy out their TV news station. He denies the allegation and accuses the Zondo Commission of persecuting him. "This is just a weakness and shoddiness in terms of what actually happened the first point to make is that R6-million that was paid is R6-million that was agreed to by various departments," he said. READ: State capture whistleblower: It's time to prosecute "This notion that GCIS decides, is a misguided notion, there's no GCIS that decides to spend money anywhere, departments make these decisions, the GCIS executes so if there was R6-million it was at the behest of DGs [director-generals] at the line departments. "Just to show how factional this report is after Manyi left, I left 2012 if you look at 2013/14, 2014/15 there was much more that went to that paper but the DG or acting person that was there isn't categorised as an enabler yet there was more money spent after Manyi left but the person there; because they're in the right faction is not categorised as an enabler," Manyi said. "This decision is not a Manyi decision, it's also not a GCIS decision that R6-million decision belongs to the line departments. I've been explaining this at the Zondo Commission but they just don't get it. "Purely because they've got a predetermined outcome to besmirch one's name and mess up ones reputation this is what this is about." Watch the video above for more details on this story. Former GCIS chief Mzwanele Manyi has denied that he enabled state capture as found by the State Capture Inquiry report. Manyi is accused of dishing out millions in advertising to Gupta-owned TNA media. #SouthAfricanMorning #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/17w4Ns1bqM