Tesla, Elon Musk's electric auto company, reported record annual profits but warned that supply chain problems would persist into 2022. AFP/Odd Andersen NEW YORK - Tesla rode rising demand for electric vehicles to a record $5.5-billion profit in 2021, but Elon Musk's company cautioned Wednesday that supply chain problems would continue to crimp production through 2022. The electric carmaker, which scored an 87 percent jump in auto deliveries last year in spite of the global semiconductor shortage, reported a 71 percent rise in revenues to $53.8-billion. But Tesla said it saw no immediate relief from supply chain woes that have hit activity "for several quarters," it said. "We plan to grow our manufacturing capacity as quickly as possible," it said in a news release that reiterated the company's target of 50 percent annual growth. "The rate of growth will depend on our equipment capacity, operational efficiency and the capacity and stability of the supply chain," Tesla said. "Our own factories have been running below capacity for several quarters as supply chain became the main limiting factor, which is likely to continue through 2022." Musk cited the supply chain issues as a factor in a decision to defer rollouts of new products this year, adding that the company will do engineering of its "Cybertruck" electric pickup with an eye towards a possible launch in 2023. "The fundamental focus of Tesla is scaling vehicles," Musk said, adding that had the company introduced new models in 2021, it would have resulted in lower overall production. Musk has previously also discussed introducing a $25,000 electric vehicle but said that product too was not on the front burner. "We have too much on our plate," Musk said. In the most recent quarter, Tesla scored a $2.3-billion profit, up more than eight times the year-ago level as revenues jumped 65 percent to $17.7-billion. Tesla has been ramping up production at factories in California and Shanghai, while also building new facilities in Germany and Texas.