It's the second week of school for inland schools but some Grade 1 and 8 pupils in Gauteng are still scrambling to be placed. eNCA's Manqoba Mchunu reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - It is the second week of school for inland schools but some Grade 1 and 8 pupils in Gauteng are still scrambling to be placed. Hundreds of frustrated parents have once again queued at the district offices in Johannesburg hoping for space for their children. Back to School | WATCH | Frustration over school placement The Gauteng Education Department says it's still processing late applications. The bad weather did little to deter scores of frustrated parents from queueing at the district office. While some parents say their children have not yet been placed.... Others are unhappy with the allocations. Lydia Madela said, "I just registered, in fact last week Thursday. I applied online and now they are telling me that the school is full. They are telling me that they have already admitted over 300 Grade 1s at Dr Knak Primary School and won't be taking more." Donna Silango said, "I applied for my child, but she has been placed at Sandton View and I am not working. My child is going to Grade 8 and I wanted her to go to school in Alexandra." For some parents like Precious Mapilane, anxiety is building after being sent from pillar to post by some officials. Mapilane said, "I applied for my child last year and my child was placed in an Afrikaans school and I have been coming to the district for the whole of last week to get a transfer to an English school for its is impossible to get that." And she is worried her daughter may be losing out on important learning time. "I'm so frustrated and it's frustrating to the children, also they are behind. I don't know what is happening as far as a learning and our children are sitting at home, doing nothing is so frustrating. And the up and down, going from District to another District. We spending money that we don't have this January." More than 276,000 Grade 1 and 8 pupils have been successfully placed in the province, and the Gauteng Education department says it’s now processing late applications. The department says it's hoping to conclude placements by the end of the month but if last year’s registrations are anything to go by, the process could be extended to next month.