Scrabble letters spelling the word "Friyay". Unsplash/Sincerely Media DUBAI - Employees and schoolchildren juggled work and studies with weekly Muslim prayers on the first-ever working Friday in the United Arab Emirates as the Gulf country formally switched to a Saturday-Sunday weekend. Some grumbled at the change and businesses were split, with many moving to the Western-style weekend but other private firms sticking with Fridays and Saturdays, as in other Gulf states. The weekly day of prayer has always been a free day in the UAE, which had previously observed a Thursday-Friday weekend until 2006. However, mosques appeared busy as worshippers carrying prayer mats arrived as usual before many of them later headed back to the office. The UAE made the surprise announcement of the weekend switch for the public sector in December as it grapples with rising competition in international business from other Gulf countries, particularly Saudi Arabia. READ: UAE shrinks work week, shifts to Western-style weekend Government bodies and schools will operate four-and-a-half-days per week, closing at 12 pm on Fridays for a fixed prayer time of 1.15pm, whereas the Muslim prayer schedule usually depends on the position of the sun. Out of 195 businesses polled by human resources consultancy Mercer, only 23 percent were preparing to follow the four-and-a-half-day week, but more than half would switch to Saturday-Sunday weekends. Nearly a third of companies are worried about the impact of being out of sync with other countries in the region, the Mercer poll found. Dubai's financial district was unusually quiet on Friday with large numbers working remotely, especially at a time of rising Covid levels when many children are also doing online schooling. The new arrangement was a major talking point on social media, with one Twitter user complaining "it just feels so wrong". "My body and mind have fully acclimatised to having Fridays off. I think today is going to a long hard struggle," the tweet reads. Sharjah, an emirate neighbouring Dubai, has found a simple solution: mandating Friday, Saturday and Sunday as a three-day weekend.