A pro-refugee activist holds placards outside a government detention centre where Serbia's tennis champion Novak Djokovic is reported to be staying in Melbourne. AFP/Con Chronis MELBOURNE - Novak Djokovic's fans rallied in the rain to protest the tennis superstar's shock detention in Australia, a development that reverberated globally and sparked an angry reaction from Serbia. About 50 protesters -- a mix of tennis fans, anti-vaccine demonstrators and immigrant rights activists -- congregated on Orthodox Christmas Day outside a detention facility in Melbourne. "We come out to support him just because it's our Christmas and obviously he's going through a lot," said fan Sash Aleksic on the sodden street outside the building. "There would obviously be a lot more people here if people did not have family obligations today." Not everyone was a supporter, though. "Refugees are welcome here, Djokovic is not," chanted a group of protesters. Police intervened to separate them from the Novak fans. "We want to show that what Novak stands for is anti-public health, anti-social solidarity, and we stand for the freedom of refugees who've been held for eight-plus years," said Zak Barzovoy, a 27-year-old student. The former Park Hotel, now officially known as an "alternative place of detention", holds about 32 refugees and asylum seekers trapped in Australia's hardline immigration system. It is believed the world's top tennis player is among them, although border authorities have refused to confirm where Djokovic is detained. The five-storey centre gained notoriety last year when a fire forced migrants to be evacuated, and maggots were allegedly found in the food. Djokovic was held after arrival in Australia this week -- his visa revoked for failing to meet the country's tough pandemic restrictions. Foreigners are still mostly banned from travel to Australia, and those granted entry must be fully vaccinated or have a medical exemption. - 'It is not human' - Australian authorities said the 34-year-old Serbian star -- who has declared himself against vaccines and claimed to have an exemption -- provided evidence of neither and was detained, pending deportation. Djokovic secured an exemption to play in the Australian Open this month. But the Australian government said he did not meet the stricter standard required to enter the country. Many Australians, who have endured nearly two years of travel bans and rolling lockdowns, were outraged when they learned the player was given a vaccine exemption. Tennis players seemed divided, but some rallied around Novak. "Look I definitely believe in taking action, I got vaccinated because of others and for my mum's health, but how we are handling Novak's situation is bad, really bad," said Australian star Nick Kyrgios. "This is one of our great champions but at the end of the day, he is human," he said on social media. Djokovic had landed in Melbourne on Wednesday hoping to defend his Australian Open crown and seal an unprecedented 21st Grand Slam title. Although he won a legal reprieve from deportation until at least Monday, when his attempt to overturn his visa cancellation will be heard in court, it is unclear whether he will play in the January 17-30 tournament. Judge Anthony Kelly warned the star's lawyers in a hearing Thursday that justice would move at its own pace through all necessary appeals. "The tail won't be wagging the dog here," he said.