Many provinces in the country are struggling in the aftermath of devastating floods but the Mother City is experiencing the opposite amid a heatwave. eNCA's Tanya Nefdt reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 SHOW MORE CAPE TOWN - Many provinces in the country are struggling in the aftermath of devastating floods, but Mother City is experiencing the opposite amid a heatwave. Temperatures soared this weekend. Another factor the City is contending with is the dry season and the fires it can bring. READ: Ou Kaapse Weg fire contained The City of Cape Town's Disaster Management Centre's head Johan Minnie said: “It's fire season, our colleagues in the fire services and their partners in Cape Peninsula National Parks and volunteer services and so on, they are all on standby. "They are ready to respond, but we would like them not to be required to respond, in that regard it’s very important for people to be extremely careful with anything that can start a fire..." The National Sea Rescue Institute has also warned of extreme conditions. “With the high temperatures that we are experiencing this weekend -- including rough sea conditions that we've been experiencing over the past week because of deep southern ocean storm that occurred causing high seas and rough sea conditions -- and obviously a lot more people on our beaches, we are appealing to the public to be cautious in and around water over this time," said NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon. WATCH: Extreme heatwave alert for Western Cape "We appeal to the public to go to beaches where lifeguards are on duty, obey the instructions of the lifeguards, [to] swim in between the safe demarcated swimming zones that they post. They'll regularly move that during the day depending on where they spot rip currents forming.” Authorities say they are expecting the high temperatures to continue into the week as pupils return to start their new school year. “We ask schools to please cancel extra curriculur activities when there’s very high temperatures, especially when they are outdoor activities and involve physical exercise and as well limit the amount of play time in the direct sunlight during school break," said Western Cape Education spokesperson Bronach Hammond. "We’re asking teachers to ensure their windows and doors remain open so we can have constant air flow and to our parents also to understand your children will be tired during this period and that they get enough sleep.”