The remains of a burnt-out car stands amidst the remains of a neighbourhood in the aftermath of the Marshall Fire in Louisville, Colorado. AFP/Marc Piscotty/Getty Images SUPERIOR - A fast-spreading wildfire that tore through several Colorado towns -- laying waste to entire neighbourhoods "in the blink of an eye," according to the governor -- had largely burned itself out Friday, with heavy snow expected to douse any remaining embers. At least 500 homes were thought to have been destroyed as the blaze took hold of the town of Superior, just outside the state's biggest city Denver, forcing tens of thousands of people to flee but there were no deaths reported so far. Shocking aerial footage showed whole streets as little more than piles of smoking ash, the destruction that appeared almost total but somehow left one or two homes incongruously untouched. "This was a disaster in fast motion... over the course of half a day. Many families having minutes to get whatever they could -- their pets, their kids -- into the car and leave," state Governor Jared Polis said. "Just as in the blink of an eye." Downed power lines are believed to have sparked grassfires in the tinder-dry landscape that were then fanned by winds gusting at more than 160 kilometres an hour on Thursday. At least 33,000 people in the towns of Superior and Louisville were told to flee, many doing so with little more than the clothes on their backs. READ: Hundreds of homes feared lost in Colorado wildfires Boulder County Sheriff Joe Pelle told a press conference on Friday that he had seen swathes of the town utterly destroyed, while other areas had been spared. "We won't have final numbers until late tonight or tomorrow, but we are fully expecting this to be 500 or more homes that were lost," he said. "I would not be surprised if it's 1,000." Pelle said the fire had burned in a "mosaic," leapfrogging some streets but laying waste to others. It "devastated some neighbourhoods and some blocks," and left others "untouched," he added. Colorado media outlets reported a handful of people had been treated for burn injuries, but there were no reports of any deaths. The area's infrastructure remained under strain, with residents ordered to boil water before drinking it. President Joe Biden has declared that a major disaster was underway in Colorado and ordered federal aid be provided to the state, the White House said.