President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu's funeral on Saturday. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - South Africa bade farewell on Saturday to Archbishop Desmond Tutu in a funeral stripped of pomp but freighted with tears and showered with drizzles of rain. Tutu died last Sunday at the age of 90, triggering grief among South Africans and tributes from world leaders for a life spent fighting injustice. Famous for his modesty, Tutu gave instructions for a simple, no-frills ceremony, with a cheap coffin, donations for charity instead of floral tributes, followed by an eco-friendly cremation. WATCH: Interfaith community pays tribute to Tutu Family, friends, clergy and politicians gathered at Cape Town's St. George's Cathedral where, for years, Tutu used the pulpit to rail against a brutal white minority regime. That is where he will be buried. "We thank you for loving our father... because we shared him with the world, you share part of the love you held for with us, so we are thankful," said Tutu's daughter Naomi. President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy. He accorded Tutu a special category funeral, usually designated for presidents and very important people. WATCH: Remembering Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu South Africa's multicoloured flag was handed to the "chief mourner", Tutu's widow, Leah -- a reminder of her husband's description of the post-apartheid country as the "Rainbow Nation". South Africa has marked a week of mourning, with several thousand people, filing past a diminutive rope-handled casket made of pine, adorned by a plain bunch of carnations. Under a grey sky and drizzle, mourners were ushered into the cathedral. Rains, according to historian Khaya Ndwandwe "are a blessing" and show that Tutu's "soul is welcome" to heaven. READ: SA to bid farewell to Archbishop Desmond Tutu Mourners included close friends and family, clergy and guests, including former Irish president Mary Robinson, and Nelson Mandela's widow Graca Machel -- with both reading prayers. Conspicuously absent from the funeral is one of Tutu's best friends, the Dalai Lama. He failed to travel due to advanced age and Covid restrictions, his representative Ngodup Dorjee, said. Tutu's longtime friend, retired bishop Michael Nuttall, who was Anglican Church dean when Tutu was the archbishop of Cape Town, delivered a sombre sermon. READ: Desmond Tutu in his own words "Our partnership struck a chord perhaps in the hearts and minds of many people: a dynamic black leader and his white deputy in the dying years of apartheid; and hey presto, the heavens did not collapse," said Nuttal. "We were a foretaste,...of what could be in our wayward, divided nation". The two forged a strong relationship, illustrating for many how a white leader could work for a black leader. Nuttall went on write a memoir titled "Tutu's Number Two" about their friendship.