File: The logo of online streaming music service Spotify displayed on a tablet screen. AFP/Lionel Bonaventure LOS ANGELES - Music streaming giant Spotify announced that it would start guiding listeners of podcasts discussing Covid-19 to more information about the pandemic following a row that saw artist Neil Young remove his music from the platform. The move comes after artists, spearheaded by Neil Young, earlier this week demanded the streaming service remove their music or drop podcaster Joe Rogan after a call from medical professionals to prevent Rogan from promoting "several falsehoods about Covid-19 vaccines." The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have also flagged concerns over misinformation on Spotify's platform, but reiterated their commitment to continue using it to publish their content. READ: Neil Young-Spotify row underscores podcast disinformation issues "We are working to add a content advisory to any podcast episode that includes a discussion about Covid-19," Spotify CEO Daniel Ek said in a statement. "This advisory will direct listeners to our dedicated Covid-19 Hub, a resource that provides easy access to data-driven facts, up-to-date information as shared by scientists, physicians, academics and public health authorities around the world, as well as links to trusted sources," Ek said. The "new effort to combat misinformation" would roll out in the next few days, he added. Rogan has discouraged vaccination in young people and promoted the off-label use of the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin to treat the virus. READ: Spotify removing Neil Young's music after Rogan ultimatum The Duke and Duchess of Sussex raised concerns over misinformation on the platform, but said they were "committed to continuing" their lucrative content deal despite "concerns". "We have continued to express our concerns to Spotify to ensure changes to its platform are made to help address this public health crisis," said a spokesperson for Archewell, the Duke and Duchess' organisation, in a statement. "We look to Spotify to meet this moment and are committed to continuing our work together as it does." Spotify voiced "regret" over Young's move but cited a need to balance "both safety for listeners and freedom for creators".