File: A sign encouraging people to apply for employment. AFP/Joe Raedle/Getty Images WASHINGTON - The US economy ended 2021 on a sour note with a worse-than-expected employment report that underscored the challenges awaiting President Joe Biden in the new year as the Omicron variant runs rampant and his legislative agenda stalls. The world's largest economy gained only 199,000 jobs in the final month of the year, the Labor Department said, defying expectations for an increase of hundreds of thousands of positions fueled by the recovery from Covid-19. However, the unemployment rate dropped to 3.9 percent, not far from where it was before the pandemic struck, and Biden hailed the report as marking "a historic day for our economic recovery." READ: US stocks edge higher after mixed jobs data Analysts warn the days ahead may grow darker as Covid cases caused by the new variant surge and again complicate daily life. "All of this is before Omicron, which is making lots of people sick and disrupting lots of businesses," Mark Zandi of Moody's Analytics tweeted, noting that the survey was based on data collected before the recent spike in infections. "Businesses are getting better at managing through the waves, but the pandemic is still calling the shots for the economy." The data was the latest setback for Biden after his marquee spending plan called Build Back Better was put on hold in Congress due to the opposition of a key lawmaker in his Democratic Party. READ: Markets struggle ahead of vital US jobs report The Republican opposition in the Senate meanwhile tweeted that the report marks "another huge miss for the Biden economy." The recent surge in inflation has also sapped public support for Biden, but the most potent actor against it is the Federal Reserve. Analysts say there was enough good news in this report for the independent central bank to move closer to increasing interest rates as soon as March, but the expected damage from Omicron could complicate the situation. "In the context of a rapidly deteriorating health situation, the (first quarter) lull in economic activity will force Fed Chair Powell to walk a tightrope at the upcoming policy meetings," Gregory Daco of Oxford Economics said.