England has lifted Covid restrictions introduced to combat the wave of Omicron. AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - England lifted coronavirus restrictions imposed to tackle the Omicron variant, with masks no longer required in enclosed places and vaccine passports shelved. The number of positive Covid-19 cases has fallen sharply over the past two weeks, and although still at high levels, have plateaued in recent days. The UK government introduced the so-called "Plan B" restrictions on December 8, after Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned of a looming "tidal wave" of Omicron. Face masks were required in all enclosed spaces and, controversially, vaccine documentation also was to enter places such as nightclubs, football grounds and large-scale events. On the streets of London around St Paul's Cathedral, there was general support for the lifting of restrictions, which comes after more than 37 million people had booster jabs. Workers are returning to the office and business is picking up, but some places such as the London Underground still require face coverings. AFP/Daniel Leal England previously lifted restrictions on July 19, so-called "Freedom Day", but then introduced new rules as the Omicron wave arrived. Health minister Sajid Javid credited the country's booster programme for allowing restrictions to be lifted. "Our vaccines, testing and antivirals ensure we have some of the strongest defences in Europe and are allowing us to cautiously return to Plan A, restoring more freedoms to this country," he said. From Thursday, passengers on London's transport network will still be required to wear face masks but they will no longer be mandatory in secondary school classrooms. Unlike Scotland and Wales, which set their own health policy, England kept nightclubs and bars open over the festive period. But businesses still took a heavy hit as punters stayed at home. Despite the lifting of restrictions, those who test positive for coronavirus must still self-isolate for a minimum of five days. Johnson said he also hopes to scrap those rules when they expire on March 24.