Stated-Owned Entity contracts with Gupta-owned New Age newspaper were unlawful according to the findings of the State Capture Inquiry report. eNCA senior reporter Aviwe Mtila has more. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - High-profile politicians and business people have been implicated in state capture contained in part one of a trilogy of reports by the Zondo Commission. Tom Moyane and Jacob Zuma are blamed for collapsing SARS. The former President also ensured Mzwanele Manyi was moved to GCIS. WATCH | Unpacking Volume 2,3 of the State Capture report or State Capture report He was able to funnel taxpayer money to Gupta-owned TNA Media in the guise of advertising. The first in a three-part series describes exactly how state-owned agencies were captured. Numsa's Irvin Jim says the ANC must shoulder the blame. READ: Numsa: Everyone who has committed a crime, must face the music Jim said: “Everyone who is found to have committed must face the music but with the fact that everybody must be deemed innocent until proven guilty, because we find ourselves looking on this commission where you have criminals who as we speak who are capturing the state but they are busy persecuting others." "In that situation, we find ourselves in a very difficult situation, we think that the entire ANC must take full responsibility for this crisis.” Business, meanwhile, wants to see arrests and charges against all involved. READ: State capture inquiry report | Calls mount for arrests, charges Business Leadership South Africa's Bonang Mohale said, “the former president Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma was vulgar and calculating in betraying his people. That he colluded with the private sector to capture SARS. That the ANC abused the government tender system. That former mayor Geoff Makhubo twice received donations for the ANC while contracting for services in the city. That the Guptas used pawns to milk the more than 740 state-owned entities." As the report lays out state capture in black and white, do South Africans believe government and its agencies have the teeth to go after those implicated? While some voices may seem pessimistic, the majority believe the findings will serve as a deterrent.