Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula was visiting train stations on Monday in the Mother City. Central Line, serves the largest portion of Cape Town's population. Mbalula has promised to get it up and running by July. It hasn't been fully operational since it was closed in 2019. eNCA reporter Nobesuthu Hejana has more. Courtesy of #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - After a long and expensive wait, there appears to be light at the end of the tunnel for Cape Town's frustrated rail commuters. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula is making big promises that paralyzed train services will be up and running by mid-year. READ: Mbalula: Prasa is just a mess He was in Cape Town on an oversight visit to five upgraded stations. An additional four Blue Trains will be added to the 12 currently running, by mid-year. The Northern Line consists of 34 stations that need upgrades, but five particularly are in dire need of repairs including Parow, Fisantekraal and Koelenhof. Stations along the Southern Line route are in good condition, except for two. Mbalula said, "these are Athlone and Maitland stations, the vast majority stations in the Northern line, where we come from, are before we arrived here which is Tygerberg and the other area we went to are in a fair condition and this corridor has been a focus of Prasa.” Prasa’s chairperson says the new security plans have a dual purpose. Prasa chairperson Leonard Ramatlakane said, "we have a security plan as Prasa which include all the other forces, the police in a form of railway police they’re a part of it." "The security, there are 3,100 security that was employed by Prasa earlier. On one component is community ‘s participation we launched the PL2P in the Western Cape which is a community-driven program”. Regarding the ongoing delays in reopening the central line which hasn’t been operational in two years, Prasa says two portions of land have been identified to relocate people who are currently encroaching on its property. It is hoped this happens by the 30 July deadline.