The trophy of the African Cup of Nations. AFP/Daniel Beloumou Olomo YAOUNDE - The wait is finally over for Cameroon, which from Sunday hosts the Africa Cup of Nations three years later than initially planned as its own Indomitable Lions measure up to the likes of reigning champions Algeria, the Senegal of Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah's Egypt. Cameroon was initially supposed to be the host nation in 2019, before being stripped of the tournament due to delays in its preparations, with Egypt replacing it. The 33rd Cup of Nations was then postponed last year because of the pandemic. The Central African country of 27 million people was, therefore, determined to press on with the competition amid reports last month that leading European clubs wanted it postponed again due to Covid concerns. This time it does go ahead, starting Sunday when Cameroon, coached by Portugal's Toni Conceicao, take on Burkina Faso in Yaounde, but the spectre of the coronavirus is not going away. READ: Choupo-Moting named in hosts Cameroon's Africa Cup of Nations squad Arsenal star Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and his Gabon team-mate Mario Lemina tested positive on Thursday and were in isolation in their hotel. Senegal, Africa's top-ranked national team, travelled to Cameroon without three members of their squad who had tested positive. Matches in Group F, featuring Tunisia, Mali, Mauritania and Gambia, are due to be played in Limbe, a coastal city close to Mount Cameroon which is also a hotspot of separatist unrest. It remains to be seen how many venues will come close to filling the restricted capacity, in particular the vast new 60,000-seat Olembe Stadium in Yaounde and the 50,000-seat Japoma Stadium in Douala. READ: Premier League stars set for 'exceptional' Afcon Cameroon, though, is football mad and many fans will be desperate to attend games in a country that has only hosted the Cup of Nations once before, in 1972 when there were just eight participants. The dream for Cameroon this time is to be in the final in the capital Yaounde on February 6, as they look to add to their five titles, a tally bettered only by Egypt, African champions a record seven times. "We know that Cameroonians have high hopes because the competition is taking place here," coach Conceicao told the BBC.