Ester Ledecka made Winter Olympic history by winning gold in both downhill skiing and snowboard at the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics. AFP/Jure Makovec PRAGUE - Ester Ledecka, a shock champion in two different sports in Pyeongchang four years ago, refuses to even utter the word "Olympics" as she heads to the Beijing Winter Games. Four years ago in Pyeongchang, the 26-year-old Czech won a surprise gold in the alpine skiing super-G event before adding another in her favoured event, the snowboarding parallel giant slalom. It made her the first athlete to win events in both alpine skiing and snowboarding at the same Olympics. In the super-G, Ledecka edged odds-on favourite Anna Veith of Austria by the narrowest of margins, with just one-hundredth of a second separating the two. Genuinely stunned, Ledecka did not even celebrate, staring at the scoreboard in disbelief for several seconds before a TV cameraman assured her she had won. A week later, as hot favourite, she won the parallel giant slalom to make history. She insists the Beijing Olympics are no more than "a little friendly match" -- a term she and her team have adopted to ease the pre-event pressure. If they utter the word "Olympics", they must pay a ten-euro ($11) fine. "I took this precaution mainly because everyone starts behaving like a complete lunatic before 'the friendly'," she said. "The media hype about Olympic races -- oops, there goes 10 euros -- takes on massive proportions and everyone gets so crazy that they believe it might be something absolutely special even for me," she added. "But it's just another race!" In Beijing, the women's snowboard parallel giant slalom takes place on February 8, three days before she has to switch to two skis for the super-G. "The fast switch (between events) is pretty cruel. But I'm happy it's not on the same day, and in the end you just have to realise that you go headlong on two edges for a change," she said with a chuckle. Ledecka has won two world championships titles and 20 World Cup events in snowboarding, earning an unrivalled four straight overall World Cup crowns in 2016-2019.