Kamila Valieva was distraught after finishing fourth in the Olympic final. AFP/Anne-Christine Poujoulat BEIJING - Kamila Valieva finished fourth in the Olympic women’s figure skating final on Thursday after an error-strewn performance handed Russian teammate Anna Shcherbakova gold, as a doping scandal seemed to take its toll on the 15-year-old. Shcherbakova scored 255.95 overall to seal the title, while Valieva, who was allowed to compete despite failing a doping test before the Games, fell several times in Bejing to slip out of the medal positions. Another Russian, Alexandra Trusova, took silver, and Japan's Kaori Sakamoto won bronze. READ: Russia's Valieva aims for second Olympic title under doping cloud The International Olympic Committee (IOC) had said if Valieva placed in the top three, no medals would be awarded until "due process" had been followed to decide if she had infringed the World Anti-Doping Code. But given the results, the medal ceremony went ahead. It was a major upset for Valieva, who looked completely broken at the end of her programme. READ: Russian teenager Valieva set to go for second Beijing Olympic title She had been the clear favourite going into the Games, but a week in it emerged she had tested positive in December for trimetazidine, banned for athletes because it can increase blood flow efficiency and help endurance. The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) on Monday ruled that she could carry on competing in the Chinese capital. Dressed in black and red, Valieva looked focused as she powered onto the ice, cheered on by the crowd, as well as a large contingent of her teammates in the athletes' stand. READ: Fresh twist in Valieva doping scandal after three substances claim But she failed to land multiple jumps she had completed with ease when she performed the same "Bolero" programme in the team event earlier at the Games. She was awarded 141.93 for it -- almost forty points off what she took last week. Supported by her coaches, she walked seemingly stunned to the kiss and cry area, where athletes wait to receive their scores, crying. She did not speak to media as she left the arena.