A model presents a collection for Italian designer Ennio Capasa during the catwalk show for the Fall/Winter 2022/2023 collection on the first day of the Milan Fashion Week. AFP/Miguel Medina MILAN - The who's who of Italian fashion retakes the runway with the return of Milan women's shows on Wednesday, which organisers hope will boost an industry stifled by two years of coronavirus. This season, for the first time since Covid-19 erupted in Italy in February 2020, in-person shows with audiences will outnumber pre-taped shows and films streamed for homebound fashionistas. Those proved a pale substitute for the runway extravaganzas that are a major advertising weapon for luxury brands. Now, Milan is hoping for an event worthy of the return of hundreds of buyers, journalists and fashion executives to the city. Carlo Capasa, chairman of Italy's national fashion chamber (CNMI), acknowledged during a press conference last week the "uncertainty" that still weighed over the sector. But the 58 physical shows and nine digital offerings for Fall/Winter 2022/2023 are "a strong sign of optimism and positivity, which infuses new momentum into the industry", he said. "Everything is heading towards recovery in 2022." Attracting the most attention among the ready-to-wear shows is Gucci, today's "It" label, with its green and red stripe. It returns to the Milan calendar after a two-year absence. Italy's fashion and related sectors are expected to post revenue of 83 billion euros ($95 billion) in 2021, up 20.9 percent year-on-year, according to CNMI. That is still 7.8 percent shy of 2019 levels, however. Exports, up 16.4 percent in the first 10 months of 2021, were fuelled by a 50-percent rise in sales to China, and a 31.8-percent increase to the United States. Chinese buyers will still be absent this week due to restricted entry into Italy, but a government measure intended to spur tourism means foreign buyers who received non-EU approved vaccines, in particular Russia's Sputnik, are welcome. A surge of Omicron cases resulted in a scaled-down Milan men's fashion week in January, and anxiety continues to hang over the show circuit, which began this month in New York and, following shows in London and Milan, wraps up in Paris on March 8. In New York, Tom Ford cancelled his highly anticipated runway show, blaming an unfinished collection on Omicron cases among US design staff and Italian factory workers.