The Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew's annual orchid festival is this year celebrating biodiversity hotspot Costa Rica. AFP/Daniel Leal LONDON - Britain's Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew unveiled its annual orchid festival, turning a sliver of southwest London into a riot of tropical colour and flora celebrating biodiversity hotspot Costa Rica. Kew's 26th orchid showcase, opening on Saturday, has this year been themed around the central American country hailed for conservation and features more than 5,000 orchids, some native to the nation on the Panama isthmus. They include the national flower, a critically endangered orchid -- named Guarianthe skinneri -- bearing pink-purple petals and found in humid forests on tree trunks and branches or on granite cliff banks at some altitudes. The month-long exhibition, housed in Kew conservatory set to tropical temperatures and conditions, also promotes Costa Rica's famed fauna, with handcrafted sculptures of some of animals made from natural materials and nestled in amongst the plants. Master florist Henck Roling said the festival was designed to be a riot of colour "Through the glass house we tried to bring in as much colour to just transport people into that sort of feel good world of Costa Rica... to make it really pretty and smashing," florist and Kew volunteer Henck Roling told AFP. It is returning to Kew after a one-year hiatus due to the coronavirus pandemic. Around 6,000 plants have been brought in for the showcase, including the 5,000 orchids originating from around the world. Various individual displays of the different orchid types are dotted around Kew's expansive and misty Princess of Wales Conservatory, interspersed between water features, ferns, monsteras and other greenery. Costa Rica was last year one of the inaugural winners of Prince William's UN-backed Earthshot Prize, in recognition of its efforts to tackle environmental degradation and promote sustainability. Alex Munro, a botanist at Kew specialising in discovering new plant species in the tropics, said he and colleagues had worked with the Costa Rican ambassador in London to help inform some of the science behind the exhibits. Other countries previously as a theme for the yearly showcase include Indonesia, India and Colombia.