When Hong Kong made a Covid check-in app mandatory at restaurants, some people -- wary of government tracking -- decided to avoid eateries entirely and go for picnics instead. AFP/Louise Delmotte HONG KONG - When Hong Kong made a Covid check-in app mandatory at restaurants, friends Birdy and Bu -- wary of government tracking -- decided to avoid eateries entirely and go for picnics instead. The idea caught fire: their private social media picnic group has swelled from 50 in December to more than 6,000 members, as many look to avoid sharing data in a city where distrust of the Beijing-backed authorities runs deep. Instead of scanning QR codes at restaurants with the government's "Leave Home Safe" app, they simply order takeaway and find spots to eat with friends. "I just don't like being forced," Birdy told AFP over a weekend picnic with Bu and another friend Dominic at a small park, their food and drinks neatly arranged on a blanket next to a playground. In December, the government made it compulsory for all adults under 65 to log their presence at various public venues -- including eateries, cinemas and gyms -- with the official app. Similar apps have been deployed around the world during the pandemic. But in Hong Kong, acceptance of the technology is unavoidably linked with the public's relationship with the authorities. "I am so frustrated," one user wrote in the picnic group. "But I will never scan that code for eating inside a restaurant." The Hong Kong government has made it compulsory for all adults under 65 to log their presence at various public venues. AFP/Louise Delmotte Currently, Leave Home Safe stores information linked to phone numbers instead of names. It does not track the users' location, instead relying on the QR code check-ins to determine where they have been. Users are informed through the app if they were at a venue where the virus was detected. However, those logs will be shared with Chinese authorities when people use a special Hong Kong health code to travel to the mainland. That code requires real names, phone numbers, IDs and home addresses. Despite the privacy concerns, Hong Kong is pressing ahead with the tech. Last month, it said the Leave Home Safe app would double as a vaccine pass, with a valid Covid inoculation record becoming a requirement for many public venues. Failure to comply with check-in rules at locations such as restaurants can carry fines as high as HK$5,000 (US$640) for customers and could land owners in jail for up to six months with a maximum fine of HK$50,000.