Batsirai hit Madagascar after passing Mauritius and drenching the French island of La Reunion with torrential rain for two days VATOMANDRY - Cyclone Batsirai on Saturday battered Madagascar's eastern region with strong winds and heavy rain, the second storm to hit the island nation in just a few weeks, officials said. Batsirai made landfall in Mananjary district, more than 530 kilometres (310 miles) southeast of the capital Antananarivo, amid warnings of "widespread damage". READ : Cyclone Batsirai closes in on eastern Madagascar "Batsirai hit Mananjary at about 8 pm (1700 GMT) local time," meteorologist Lovandrainy Ratovoharisoa told AFP by phone, but gave no further details. It reached the island as an "intense tropical cyclone", packing winds of 165 kilometres per hour (102 miles per hour) and gusts of 235 kilometres per hour (146 miles per hour), Faly Aritiana Fabien of the country's disaster management agency told AFP. Tropical Storm Ana killed 58 people and affected at least 131,000 more in Madagascar last month The national meteorological office has said it fears "significant and widespread damage". Just an hour and a half after it first hit land, nearly 27,000 people had been counted as displaced from their homes, Fabien said. His office has accommodation sites, food and medical care ready for victims, as well as search and rescue plans already in place, he said. The Meteo-France weather service had earlier predicted Batsirai would present "a very serious threat" to Madagascar, after passing Mauritius and drenching the French island of La Reunion with torrential rain for two days.  - 'Cooking with dirty water' -  Cyclone Batsirai In the hours before the cyclone hit, residents hunkered down in the impoverished country, still recovering from the deadly Tropical Storm Ana late last month. In the eastern coastal town of Vatomandry, more than 200 people were crammed in one room in a Chinese-owned concrete building. Families slept on mats or mattresses. Community leader Thierry Louison Leaby lamented the lack of clean water after the water utility company turned off supplies ahead of the cyclone. "People are cooking with dirty water," he said, amid fears of a diarrhoea outbreak. Outside plastic dishes and buckets were placed in a line to catch rainwater dripping from the corrugated roofing sheets. "The government must absolutely help us. We have not been given anything," he said. Residents who chose to remain in their homes used sandbags and yellow jerrycans to buttress their roofs. Residents who chose to remain in their homes used sandbags and yellow jerrycans to buttress their roofs Other residents of Vatomandry were stockpiling supplies in preparation for the storm. "We have been stocking up for a week, rice but also grains because with the electricity cuts we cannot keep meat or fish," said Odette Nirina, 65, a hotelier in Vatomandry. "I have also stocked up on coal. Here we are used to cyclones," she told AFP. Winds of more than 50 kilometres per hour (30 miles per hour) pummelled Vatomandry Saturday morning, accompanied by intermittent rain.  - 'Very nervous' -  The disaster agency said the cyclone was expected to remain "dangerous" as it swept across the large island overnight and in the morning. Flooding is expected due to excessive rainfall in the east, southeast and central regions of the country, it warned. The United Nations was ramping up its preparedness with aid agencies, placing rescue aircraft on standby and stockpiling humanitarian supplies. The impact of Batsirai on Madagascar is expected to be "considerable", Jens Laerke, spokesman for the UN's humanitarian organisation OCHA, said in Geneva on Friday. At least 131,000 people were affected by Ana across Madagascar in late January. Close to 60 people were killed, mostly in the capital Antananarivo. That storm also hit Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe, causing dozens of deaths. The UN's World Food Programme pointed to estimates from national authorities that some 595,000 people could be directly affected by Batsirai, and 150,000 more might be displaced due to new landslides and flooding. "We are very nervous," Pasqualina Di Sirio, who heads the WFP operation in Madagascar, told reporters by video-link from the island. Rain, strong winds in Madagascar before the arrival of Cyclone Batsurai burs-str-sn/ah By Adele Dhayer