Russia's Kamila Valieva trained on Sunday as her Olympics hung in the balance. AFP/Anne-Christine Poujoulat BEIJING - Sport's top court was to hold a hearing Sunday to decide the Beijing Olympics fate of 15-year-old Russian figure skater Kamila Valieva after she failed a drugs test, as snow disrupted the Games. Valieva's Games hangs in the balance after it emerged that she tested before the Olympics for a banned substance. The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) was to hold a video hearing before delivering its verdict on Monday, just a day before Valieva is scheduled to compete in the women's singles competition, one of the most closely watched events at the Olympics. Valieva was a strong favourite for gold but her Olympics and her fledgling career are now in jeopardy. READ: Teenage figure skater first woman to land quad jump at Olympics Christophe Dubi, Olympic Games executive director, said it was important to remember the "human side of this story... to think about a person of 15 in this situation". "We need to treat this situation extremely carefully," said Dubi. Valieva, who starred as Russia won team gold in Beijing on Monday, tested positive for trimetazidine after competing at an event in Saint Petersburg on December 25. However, the International Testing Agency says the World Anti-Doping Agency-accredited laboratory in Stockholm only reported that Valieva had returned a positive case on February 8 -- the day after she won team gold in Beijing. READ: Russian Olympic skater Valieva to learn doping fate on Monday The Russian team and the country's government have raised questions as to why it took six weeks for the result to come out. Valieva again practised on Sunday, watched by her coach Eteri Tutberidze, who has herself come under scrutiny in the wake of the affair. The young skater declined to comment to reporters afterwards but appeared in good spirits, laughing and joking with members of the Russian coaching team. READ: Russia's Valieva - 'fragile little girl' in doping spotlight The case is just the latest doping scandal surrounding Russian athletes at Olympic Games in recent years. Russian competitors are taking part in Beijing under the flag of the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC), providing they have been able to prove they were not tainted by a massive state-sponsored doping programme focused on the 2014 Sochi Olympics. The Russian flag cannot be displayed at the Games and the national anthem cannot be played.