Australia-born Mack Hansen (L) will make his Test debut for Ireland on Saturday in the Six Nations opener with titleholders Wales just months after joining Irish province Connacht SYDNEY - Australia-born winger Mack Hansen will make his Test debut for Ireland in their Six Nations opener against champions Wales on Saturday. The 23-year-old former Brumbies flier qualifies through his Irish mother and has earned his rapid international recognition on the back of sparkling displays for his province Connacht this season. Hansen's case for inclusion has also been helped by injuries to Jacob Stockdale and James Lowe. "He (Hansen) is a smart rugby player and he knows how to get involved in the game," said head coach Andy Farrell at his press conference on Thursday. "He has a good feel for the game and has a good skill set across the board. "It is tough one's first international camp but he hit the ground running, he picked things up straight away." Unsurprisingly with Ireland going into the game on an eight Test winning run the rest of the starting line-up is largely that which impressed in the November Tests, including a win over New Zealand. Farrell has opted for the in-form Tadhg Beirne to partner James Ryan in the second row. Iain Henderson who has been Ryan's usual partner does not make the bench either as he only recently returned to training and has not played for seven weeks. "He was just short of it (full fitness)," said Farrell. "He is back training fully, we are topping him up every day and he is going great guns and will be ready to go next week (they play France in Paris on February 12)." 'Danger all over' Captain and fly-half Johnny Sexton will be partnered by his Leinster team-mate Jamison Gibson-Park, the New Zealand-born scrum-half having justified his starting spot ahead of veteran Conor Murray in the autumn. In the centres, Hansen's provincial team-mate Bundee Aki and Leinster's Garry Ringrose team up for the 15th time whilst full-back Hugo Keenan has become a fixture in the starting line-up as he gets the nod for the 17th successive Test. Murray and flanker Peter O'Mahony form part of a very experienced bench alongside prop Cian Healy whilst Joey Carbery has proved he has recovered from a broken elbow to be Sexton's understudy. Hooker Dan Sheehan and centre James Hume are in line for their first Six Nations appearances as they fill out the bench. Hume gets a chance as Keith Earls and Robbie Henshaw are struggling with minor injuries. "Earlsie is not fit, he has a hamstring strain and is going for a scan today," said Farrell. "Robbie had a little bit of a niggle on an adductor towards the end of last week and has had a good few days of rehab." The hosts are pretty much at full strength and they will start as favourites on Saturday against a Wales side that has been denied of loads of talent and experience like injured iconic skipper Alun Wyn Jones. The Welsh have found Dublin a daunting place to visit with just one win in their last seven trips. Sexton, who will win his 102nd cap, has discounted talk of an easy ride -- another factor thrown in how poorly the Welsh regions have fared in Europe this term -- saying it would be insulting to the Welsh players. Farrell too refused to count the Welsh out. "They are a good side look at their backline there is danger all over with the people they have got," said Farrell. Team (15-1) Hugo Keenan; Andrew Conway, Garry Ringrose, Bundee Aki, Mack Hansen; Johnny Sexton (capt), Jamison Gibson-Park; Jack Conan, Josh van der Flier, Caelan Doris; James Ryan, Tadhg Beirne; Tadhg Furlong, Andrew Porter, Ronan Kelleher Replacements: Dan Sheehan, Cian Healy, Finlay Bealham, Ryan Baird, Peter O'Mahony, Conor Murray, Joey Carbery, James Hume Coach: Andy Farrell (ENG)