The aim is to create a pudding worthy of the queen that is at the same time simple enough to be recreated by millions of Britons. AFP/Justin Tallis LONDON - "It would be such an honour!": Amateur British cooks are battling to create the best Platinum Jubilee pudding to mark 70 years of Queen Elizabeth II's reign. Any baker without professional qualifications living in the United Kingdom and aged eight or over can take part. The aim is to create a pudding worthy of the queen that is at the same time simple enough to be recreated by millions of Britons celebrating the historic event at street parties throughout the realm. Party plum trifle, raspberry and white chocolate cheesecake or royal lemon tart: social media is already awash with novel ideas from proud chefs. The main challenge facing budding bakers is to know just which flavours the queen prefers. "No one knows for sure what she likes," said culinary historian Regula Ysewijn, also one of the competition's judges. Claire Ptak has already had the honour, when she was invited by Kensington Palace to come up with a pudding idea for the marriage of William's brother Harry, to Meghan Markle in 2018 "It's something that people, the press in the UK have been trying to find out for as long as she has been on the throne, it's a closely guarded secret." The rumour is that Her Majesty was particularly fond of the "Groom's Cake" served at the wedding of her grandson William and Kate Middleton in 2011. "That's like a cake made with biscuits and then chocolate in between," Ysewijn told AFP. "So we know that she likes that, so she probably really does like chocolate." Being the Queen of England "she must love a British pudding, traditional pudding. So people can really go very traditional and have a steamed pudding if they want to," notes Ysewijn. Besides taste and originality, judges are hoping that "people will look at the long and exciting life that the queen has already led and all the achievements that she has done and take inspiration from that in the pudding," she said. "And of course it has to be fit for the Queen so it has to look pretty too," Ysewijn said. "We want the queen to be completely amazed when she sees the pudding."