 JOHANNESBURG – Another eVOD Original releases 24 February 2022. His mother had a dream, so did everyone he knows - but no one has ever made it out of Gaza. Seventeen-year-old Phuzi is caught between an uncertain dream of a kwaito career, love, and an open door to a life of crime. After burying his grandfather, Phuzi’s childhood sweetheart Thandeka returns to Gaza. Her return does not only fuel Phuzi with hopes of better days, but she brings good news too. A new kwaito competition is looking for contestants and Thandeka believes Phuzi has what it takes to make it. Caught between his friends who are about to establish themselves as a crime duo, Phuzi has a difficult decision to make. His fate is decided for him though, when he becomes entangled in a horrendous crime, which rocks the whole Gaza community. With the hounding detective Tambo on their trail, Phuzi does not only stand a chance to lose a chance of realising his musical dream, but his freedom as well. Despite his troubles Thandeka’s love still finds Phuzi, but will it be enough to save him …? The locally produced crime movie includes a mix of new and familiar talent, amongst others, Botlhale Mahlangu (Phuzi), Samke Makhoba (Thandeka), Ayanda Daweti (Titus), Mpho Molepo (Cash Zonke), and promises to entertain all audiences with captivating cinematography and convincing characters. "We are all fighting against something we are trying to survive, we all have a Gaza that we need to face. This film carries the hopes and the dreams of young people around South Africa who are all facing difficult circumstances fighting for their dreams, fighting to survive in a country that is also struggling to meet their needs." says Trial By Media Film Director, Vusi Africa. “We are excited to release another eVOD Original movie in the space of six months. Surviving Gaza is the quintessential coming of age story, about dreams, peer-pressure, decisions and consequences. The movie is set against the very vibrant kwaito era in South Africa with a realistic view of the hardships faced by our youth,” says Helga Palmer, Head of Local Programming at eMedia.