Gun salutes were fired in Green Park, central London, and at the Tower of London, on the banks of the River Thames. AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - Queen Elizabeth II returned to London to resume public duties on Monday following a health scare as the capital echoed to the sound of cannon shots to mark her 70 years on the throne. At midday, the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery unit fired a 41-gun salute from Green Park, near the monarch's Buckingham Palace residence in central London, beginning a year of celebrations to honour Britain's longest-serving monarch. Another 62 shots then rang out an hour later from the Tower of London, the historic royal palace and home to the Crown Jewels. The ceremonies took place the day after "Accession Day", the date in 1952 when Princess Elizabeth's father king George VI died and she became queen. The Green Park salute consisted of the usual 21-gun salute with an extra 20 due to it being in a royal park. There were another 21 shots at the Tower of London event as it is in the City of London. Life of service The four-day jubilee weekend will begin on Thursday June 2, although events will be held throughout the year to honour the 95-year-old queen. Queen Elizabeth II, 95, spent the anniversary of her accession and the death of her father, George VI, at her Sandringham estate in eastern England Elizabeth on Sunday became the first British monarch to reign for 70 years, marking the historic date quietly at Sandringham, her estate in eastern England where her father died. She has barely been seen in public since being laid low by a health scare in October, which required an overnight hospital stay for preliminary tests. Stressing that the Queen is still actively working, Buckingham Palace released a photo taken at Sandringham this week showing her going through one of her famous red dispatch boxes used for government business. She also held a reception on Saturday for locals at Sandringham, which was reportedly her largest in-person public engagement since the autumn scare. READ: Gun salutes fired to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 70-year reign Buckingham Palace on Monday told AFP that the Queen had returned to her Windsor Castle residence, west of London, and was resuming public duties, which it is hoped will include attending a thanksgiving service for her late husband Prince Philip at Westminster Abbey on March 29. "In addition, her majesty will be resuming her normal duties of audiences, credentials and privy council meetings, continuing to mix both virtual and in-person events," a source told the domestic Press Association. She plans to attend a diplomatic reception on March 2 and the annual Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey on March 14.