File: Members of a street carnival group perform in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. AFP/Mauro Pimentel RIO DE JANEIRO - With the glittering parades, towering floats and sultry samba postponed by the omicron variant, Brazil will have a carnival week without much carnival this year -- bad news for a tourism industry already battered by the pandemic. In a world without Covid-19, this would have been the week a deluge of tourists -- more than 2.1 million in 2020 -- descended on Rio de Janeiro for a free-for-all of street parties and spectacular, all-night parades. Instead, industry experts predict Rio and other tourist destinations to be relatively low-key, with a smaller number of visitors -- mainly Brazilians travelling domestically. That is adding to the agony of a tourism industry only just starting to recover from near-collapse in 2020. "It's been very traumatic," said Alexandre Sampaio, head of hotel and restaurant federation FBHA, citing official figures showing the tourism industry's revenues plunged 35 percent in 2020. The industry rebounded only partially in 2021, growing around 20 percent. Carnival week will still have concerts, parties and balls in Rio -- limited to 70 percent capacity, with vaccine and mask requirements. But omicron led authorities to cancel carnival street parties for the second straight year, and postpone the famed samba school parade competition until April. "We'll see some revenues" from the rescheduled parades, "but it won't come anywhere near pre-pandemic levels," said Fabio Bentes, an economist at the National Confederation of Trade in Goods, Services and Tourism (CNC). - 'Call of the journey' - Brazil is a bucket-list destination for many people, with the Amazon rainforest, the Pantanal wetlands, the colourful colonial capital of Salvador, the stunning waterfalls of Iguacu and myriad other must-sees -- not to mention Rio and carnival. But the country has been hit hard by the pandemic, with nearly 650,000 deaths -- second only to the United States. The numbers have improved with more than 70 percent of the population now fully vaccinated. But visitors have been slow to return. Experts say the drop in foreign tourists has been partially offset by more Brazilians travelling domestically, themselves wary of flying overseas. They predict a full recovery for Brazil's tourism sector only in 2023 -- if there are no more unpleasant surprises in the meantime.