A family leave to board a plane at Sydney's International Airport. AFP/Saeed Khan SYDNEY - Australia will reopen its borders to tourists from 21 February, ending some of the world's strictest and longest-running pandemic travel restrictions. "It's almost two years since we took the decision to close the borders to Australia," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said after a meeting of the national security cabinet. He announced the borders will reopen to all visa holders "on the 21st of February of this year," adding, "if you're double vaccinated, we look forward to welcoming you back to Australia." Australia's borders slammed shut in March 2020 in the hope of protecting the island continent against a surging global pandemic. READ: Australia pumps cash into Great Barrier Reef protection For most of the time since then, Australians have been barred from leaving and only a handful of visitors have been granted exemptions to enter. The rules have stranded nationals overseas, split families, hammered the country's multi-billion-dollar tourist industry, and prompted often bitter debates about Australia's status as a modern, open and outward-looking nation. Every month of border closures has cost businesses an estimated US$2.6 billion, according to the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In recent months, rules have been gradually relaxed for Australians, long-term residents and students. The latest decision will see almost all remaining caps lifted. READ: Australia lifts international travel ban for citizens It comes after the country's long-standing "Covid-zero" policy was abandoned, vaccination rates rose and the once stellar track-and-trace system collapsed under a wave of Omicron cases. Only a handful of countries remain closed to tourists -- among them Japan, China, New Zealand and several Pacific Island nations. For Australia's travel and tourism sector -- which struggled as visitor numbers fell almost 98 percent compared to pre-pandemic levels -- the news brought elation. "We're very excited about being able to reopen," said Tony Walker, managing director of the Quicksilver Group, which operates cruises, diving and resorts across the Great Barrier Reef. "The last couple of years have been incredibly difficult for us," he told AFP, urging people overseas to "come visit".