Residents in the border town of Manguzi in KZN are calling for a new approach from security forces to deal with car theft syndicates targeting the area. eNCA senior reporter Dasen Thatiah has more on this story. Courtesy of #DStv403 MANGUZI - Residents in the border town of Manguzi in KZN are calling for a new approach from security forces to deal with car theft syndicates targeting the area. 4x4 vehicles, in particular, are stolen regularly despite the deployment of the SANDF to guard the border line. Edmund Zikhali and his wife wake up to four armed robbers, pointing guns at them inside their home. He instantly knows why. EXCLUSIVE | WATCH | Police accused of helping hijackers Zikhali said, "there's a car, they are coming for a car now. Then I shouted and my wife started to cry. You know, I tried to escape using the window but you see it was not easy because they started to shoot. When my wife said don't run, I decided no, let me cool down otherwise I will die.” "The traumatic situation is that I was fully naked. That's how it had happened. Then they started to do whatever they wanted to do, freely using their cellphone to lighten the house.” The criminals demand the keys to Zikhali’s new Isuzu X-Rider. Interestingly, he’d bought that brand based on a presumed lower risk but the men were not happy taking just the bakkie and his valuables. He explained, "I was lying at the back of the bakkie. I mean, inside, but at the back of the bakkie, inside the bakkie itself, in the backseat, yes and my wife as well. Naked as I am, then they drove the car away.” "She was silent by then because…even myself I was silent because you may never know whether is it time to die, or not.” Zikhali said, "they stopped the car, they took my wife out then they said no, they wait, somebody wait with us. I don’t know whether there was a phone call or what. Then, this guy, he was monitoring us, he said you just move. Then he showed us one of the other places where we can go.  But he said go this road, don’t turn.” "You discover that outside is darker than where you were you’ve been. You can’t even see if you have to go this direction or the other direction. If no one had to show you which direction to go to, you might get lost.” As frightening as it is, Zikhali’s story isn't unique. It’s shared by a number of 4x4 owners living close to the Kosi Bay border. Their vehicles, bought for a few hundred thousand, can be sold for as little as R12,000 on the other side. Recent crime statistics seem to reflect the strategy used by criminals in Manguzi, with home robberies rocketing by 360-percent. The SANDF – in particular the 17 platoons deployed for Operation Corona – is tasked with keeping the border line safe. In its current form, the fence is conducive to the movement of vehicles. In the same year Zikhali was robbed, government announced a low-tech – but ingenious - plan to install jersey barriers. At R86-million, its purpose was to hinder the easy transfer of stolen bakkies. Only a fraction of the work was completed before the project stalled over irregularities. Now, criminals can drive past the defunct production site on their way to the border line. KZN premier Sihle Zikalala said, "we started a program of constructing jersey barriers so that no one would be able to take the car and take it out of South Africa but the program was stopped because of the Portfolio Committee of Public Works that went there and said it is not our mandate to do so and there was an investigation by SIU." "What is amazing with this is that after they’ve said so they have not taken the responsibility to either complete the work we have started or to do something that will assist the people who are suffering because of this thing. So we will be taking up this matter, including raising it in the presidential coordinating council because we cannot accept such a situation.” READ: De Lille says Public Works Department in a mess Zikalala and members of the provincial legislature visited the Umkhanyakude District recently to inspect its police stations. A critical lack of resources was one of the more concerning discoveries. Over the past years, the area has been something of a tourist attraction for current and former government leaders - who always leave with promises to change the status quo. Umhlabuyalingana Society Against Crime's Juda Mthethwa said, "yesterday, the premier was here together with the portfolio committee and I did not hear anything. What I heard is that the premier said they are going to make sure that the residents of Umhlabuyalingana are safe but he did not come up with a clear position or a clear plan that how if he going to stop this thing but I did not hear." Mthethwa is part of a community crime-fighting initiative monitoring cross-border issues. He said, "when the government is deploying people here to our area, at first they must report that they are here to assist us so that we will give them the tips but the problem is that, what is missing is that, they want to work alone so you cannot work alone here, the place that you don’t understand.” He's concerned by the perceived attitude of the SANDF, in particular. Mthethwa said, "the SANDF and also the SAPS, there is no relationship between them and a community we believe that their arrival here is to assist the community but only to find out that they are just fighting." "When we ask them why are you fighting because we are working with one government? they say it is our jurisdiction. They speak of a 10km radius. When the car is coming, it could be from any places, coming down from Mozambique, when we inform the policemen to write that particular car, the SANDF says what are you doing, what do you want here?” This is an allegation the SANDF denies, saying its working relationship with all stakeholders is intact but residents are not convinced about the role of the army. Zikhali said, "let’s forget about the army. I don’t know what is their task on the borderline. I will put it like that way. I don’t know. I really don’t know why they are on the borderline. Because if they were doing their work enough, our cars would be stopped by the fence. They would be stopped. There is a camp at Moshudu. There’s a camp all over here but our cars they are passing right there.” Zikhali says Mozambicans and locals are working together to steal, so South Africa needs similar cooperation from its neighbour to counter this. He said, "some they were speaking Zulu. Some were languages we are not familiar with, of which it was Mozambican, I believe so. They were mixed. They were mixed, meaning that there was somebody from South Africa who was with them.” The KZN premier says allegations of police involvement in car theft syndicates is currently under investigation. It’s long been suspected that criminals have had an upper-hand in cross-border crime through police connections. Despite this, police have had their success stories, too. Just last year, nine suspects – from both South Africa and Mozambique - were arrested for car theft-related crimes during an operation in Umkhanyakude. It’s encouraging, but the emotional scars for victims of crime are not easily healed. Zikhali said, "my wife has taken a transfer to work at Empangeni, because of the trauma, you know. Even myself, I’m just here because I’m a man. But she was saying to me, what if our children were here and experienced such a situation. It would be worse.”