US President Joe Biden speaks with Russian President Vladimir Putin from the presidential retreat in Camp David, Maryland. AFP/White House WASHINGTON - Efforts to defuse the crisis in Ukraine via a frenzy of telephone diplomacy failed to ease tensions Saturday, with US President Joe Biden warning that Russia faces "swift and severe costs" if its troops carry out an invasion. Russian leader Vladimir Putin slammed Western claims that Moscow was planning such a move as "provocative speculation" that could lead to conflict in the ex-Soviet country, according to a Russian readout of a call with French President Emmanuel Macron. Speaking after new phone talks between Putin and Biden, the Kremlin's top foreign policy advisor Yury Ushakov told a conference call: "Hysteria has reached its peak." READ: Biden to sound out Putin as US warns of Ukraine war 'any day' Weeks of tensions that have seen Russia nearly surround its western neighbour with more than 100,000 troops intensified after Washington warned that an all-out invasion could begin "any day" and Russia launched its biggest naval drills in years across the Black Sea. "If Russia undertakes a further invasion of Ukraine, the United States together with our allies and partners will respond decisively and impose swift and severe costs on Russia," Biden told Putin, according to the White House. While the United States was prepared to engage in diplomacy, "we are equally prepared for other scenarios", Biden said, as the two nations stare down one of the gravest crises in East-West relations since the Cold War. READ: Worries over Ukraine invasion pummel US stocks, lift oil prices While the Biden-Putin talks were "professional and substantive", lasting just over an hour, they produced "no fundamental change" in dynamics, a senior US official told reporters. Russia has launched its biggest navy drills in years in the Black Sea off Ukraine's southwestern coast Russia's defence ministry added to the febrile atmosphere by announcing that it had chased off a US submarine it said had crossed into its territorial waters near the Kuril Islands in the northern Pacific. The ministry said it had summoned the US defence attache in Moscow over the incident. READ: US warns Russia could attack Ukraine 'any day' But the US Indo-Pacific Command denied the account. "There is no truth to the Russian claims of our operations in their territorial waters," spokesman Captain Kyle Raines said in a statement. Putin began his afternoon holding talks with Macron that the French presidency said lasted one hour and 40 minutes. Macron's office said "both expressed a desire to continue dialogue" but, like Washington, reported no clear progress. READ: Western leaders to confer on Ukraine amid war fears Washington on Friday issued its most dire warning yet that Russia had assembled enough forces to launch a serious assault. "Our view that military action could occur any day now, and could occur before the end of the Olympics, is only growing in terms of its robustness," US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan warned.