A man mourns at a makeshift memorial installed at the site of a shooting at Fields mall, the day after the deadly shootings, in Copenhagen, Denmark. AFP/Mads Claus Rasmussen/Ritzau Scanpix COPENHAGEN - The chief suspect in a Copenhagen mall shooting was remanded into a psychiatric care facility, one day after three people, including two teenagers, were shot dead. "The court remands the 22-year-old in a closed psychiatric ward," Copenhagen police said in a statement, following a two-hour hearing involving the suspect. The suspected perpetrator of the attack, which took place late on Sunday afternoon, would be kept in custody for at least 24 days, which can then be extended, according to police. The young man was brought before a judge at midday at the Copenhagen district court on Monday. Wearing a blue T-shirt, he listened as the indictment for murder was read out, before the hearing continued behind closed doors. READ: Shots fired in Copenhagen mall, several victims, one arrest According to public broadcaster DR, citing several unnamed sources, the suspected gunman had tried to reach a psychological helpline shortly before the attack, but authorities would not confirm this. Copenhagen police chief Soren Thomassen had already told a morning press conference that the "suspect is also known among psychiatric services", but declined to comment further. The attack occurred on the heels of the city playing host to the start of the Tour de France cycling competition and seeing the return of the Roskilde music festival after being cancelled due to Covid-19 curbs. - 'Violent contrast' - "I think we have rarely experienced such a violent contrast as yesterday," Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said as she arrived to pay tribute to the victims at the scene. "But today I think we must pay tribute to the victims, show our sympathy, our help and support, and support all those who have been affected," she told reporters. Copenhagen's mayor Sophie H. Andersen announced Monday a memorial service was being prepared. The three killed have been identified as two Danish teens, a girl and boy both aged 17, and a 47-year-old Russian living in Denmark. READ: Copenhagen shooting suspect had mental health issues: police Speaking at an afternoon press conference, Copenhagen police inspector Dannie Rise said that in total 10 people had been injured by gunfire, including the three dead, with another four being seriously injured. Rise also said police had received a large number of witness accounts and videos from the public, and were in the process of "putting the puzzle together" to establish a motive. Given the victims' varied ages and genders, Thomassen said they appeared to have been randomly targeted and there was nothing to indicate it was an act of terror. The police chief said there seemed to have been preparation ahead of the attack and that he was not aided by anyone else.