Bob Jungels won stage nine Sunday after testing positive for covid in Denmark but being allowed to continue due to a low viral charge PARIS - The Tour de France peloton were given the green light to advance into the Alps as the latest mass batch of rider covid tests were all reported negative on Monday. The 165 remaining riders can now enjoy rest day Monday and focus on the fearsome mountains ahead of them. The news came after three riders pulled out of the world's most prestigious bike race over the past two stages as the race entered its often decisive slog through the Alpine mountains. When defending champion Tadej Pogacar's UAE Emirates teammate the Norwegian Vegard Stake Laengen was pulled out after falling sick Saturday, tensions and even fears rose considerably. "It's a big scare, the pandemic is still there with us," the 23-year-old Slovenian race leader said after winning stage eight. UAE revealed that riders each had not only their own room, but their own masseur. Sunday's ninth stage was preceded by the news that the top French rider from the 2021 Tour, Guillaume Martin had been forced to withdraw too. "It's such a shame," said the then 13th placed rider. "I just have a slight sore throat." But Martin had been deemed infectious, in covid speak, emitting a strong viral charge. "The decision was taken in a collegial manner by the concerned team doctor, the Covid-19 doctor for the event and the UCI Medical Director, on the basis of the available clinical elements," a UCI statement said. A collegial medical decision can also clear a rider to continue, in the case of a low viral charge. This was the case of stage nine winner Bob Jungels, of the AG2R team who withdrew Frenchman Geoffrey Bouchard on Saturday. Too close for comfort Jungels, from Luxembourg, tested positive before the Grand Depart in Copenhagen but was cleared to ride. "I'm not a doctor. It's not for me to comment on this decision, but I didn't feel ill," said Jungels after doctors deemed him unlikely to infect others. AG2R riders share rooms, and Bouchard's roommate and the rest of riders, including Jungels were cleared to race. "Cycling is exemplary with its covid testing," a member of the AG2R entourage told AFP that day, suggesting cycling took its testing much more seriously than some other sports. A Tour de France doctor told AFP at Aigle ahead of Sunday's start that there would be one more official mass test later this week. The UCI reminded all concerned Monday to "wear a mask, maintain sufficient physical distance and disinfect hands frequently". The Tour heads into the mountains for three challenging days in the saddle. July 14 offers the iconic Alpe d'Huez mountain, where vast crowds of spectators gather, often running alongside riders and sometimes getting too close for comfort. Pogacar himself wondered aloud after his stage eight win whether the mountain crowds that close in and scream their encouragement were not a potential vector for the virus.