Max Verstappen was happy after the Austrian Grand Prix qualifying session. AFP/Christian Bruna SPIELBERG BEI KNITTELFELD - Max Verstappen claimed pole for the Austrian Grand Prix sprint race on Friday to enhance his standing as the Red Bull Ring master but Mercedes suffered a double disaster in a qualifying session laden with drama. Verstappen pulled out a stunning lap in front of tens of thousands of his Dutch fans to grab the prime grid position by just 0.029sec from Charles Leclerc's Ferrari. "It's incredible to see the crowd here and see so much orange and the support I get now for a few years already here,” the Belgian-born Dutch world champion said. "It definitely brings a smile on my face and I hope we can make it a great weekend." Carlos Sainz, fresh from his maiden win at Silverstone last weekend, was third in the other Ferrari with less than a tenth of a second covering the top three. Verstappen's Red Bull teammate Sergio Perez took fourth, but the Mexican was demoted to 13th for breaking track limits in the second qualifying session. Mercedes had approached this weekend in confident mood after a strong performance at Silverstone but both Lewis Hamilton and George Russell crashed out in the top-10 shoot-out. Hamilton made a rare mistake to smash into the barrier at turn seven on a fast lap with five and a half minutes of Q3 left. He was soon out of his car, walking back to the pits. "It was a big hit, but I'm okay," he said later. "Incredibly disappointed in myself and so sorry to the team who worked so hard to put this car together - I never like to damage it," Hamilton added. "We were fighting for a top three, I think. I don't have an answer for it." After a red flag period as the mashed-up Mercedes was lifted off the circuit, the session restarted. But not for long, as Russell then exited stage left, at turn 10, to leave Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff staring bleakly at his TV monitor. With eight cars left to battle it out for pole Verstappen took the honours. "It was a very long wait between the two runs and that's never great. Once you're in the rhythm, it's nice to just keep on going," said Verstappen. "But of course, very happy with pole; but I also know that tomorrow and Sunday, you can get the points," he added.