Forex. On the foreign exchange market, there is a large number of brokers that make it possible for traders from South Africa to open accounts in ZAR currency. This is done in order to give traders from South Africa with convenience and flexibility. As such, it is vital to sign up with reputable brokers who offer accounts denominated in ZAR if you want to trade on the foreign exchange market in South Africa. Because the ZAR is the official currency of the country, foreign exchange brokers based in South Africa are able to successfully perform the required financial transactions using the local currency. In addition, if you want a more streamlined experience when trading, you should look for a broker platform that is user-friendly for beginners and that offers a variety of trading tools. We explore the 5 best Forex brokers with ZAR accounts.  1. AvaTrade AvaTrade is under the regulatory oversight of the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA), which is the primary financial regulator in South Africa and is one of the leading Forex brokers with ZAR accounts. The popularity of AvaTrade can be attributed to the platform's user-friendliness as well as the extensive number of cost-free deposit and withdrawal choices it provides. AvaTrade's open cost structure and competitive trading fees are the only two selling points that the company offers.   2. Exness Exness is widely regarded as one of the most trustworthy brokers in the industry, both in terms of its openness and the regulations it abides by. The company serves traders of all experience levels. This broker stands out from others in the industry due to the very low fees it charges on transactions and other prices. Spreads, pricing, and trading conditions at Exness are among the most competitive in the industry.   3. IFX Brokers IFX Brokers Holdings (Pty) Ltd is a South African company registered by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA) (licence number 48021) as a trading name for IFX Brokers Holdings (Pty) Ltd. Access to True ECN market conditions is provided, in addition to a comprehensive selection of market spreads, by IFX Brokers. Over fifty banks and dark pool liquidity providers price into the broker's electronic communication network (ECN) at any given moment, ensuring that spreads are tight and that there is ample liquidity.   4. Tickmill Tickmill is a well-respected STP broker that was established in 2014 and has worked hard to earn a reputation for providing traders of all experience levels with the best possible forex trading experience.   Also read | Best Forex Brokers in Namibia 5. GlobeX360 Globex360 is a South African broker that is regulated by the FSCA. It is appealing to traders who would rather have trading accounts denominated in ZAR and local service from South Africa.  