California firefighters ended up building a water-filled put to extinguish the flames in a Tesla electric car. AFP/Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District LOS ANGELES - California firefighters ended up using a water-filled pit to douse stubborn flames in a Tesla's battery compartment earlier this month, illustrating the distinct difficulties in battling electric vehicle blazes. As the number of electric cars on America's roads has jumped, fire crews have had to learn how to attack flames in them that can require hours -– and thousands of gallons of water -– to put out. Though they can require particular procedures to fight, early indications point to fires in battery-powered cars being no more frequent than their fossil fuel-powered cousins, yet the US government is still gathering data. The main difference with electric vehicles is their power source, and lithium-ion batteries burn hot, fast and require large amounts of water to fully extinguish when they catch fire. Tesla, which dominates America's electric vehicle market, says it can take 11,000-30,000 litres of water to put out and cool a battery fire. "Always establish or request additional water supply early," Elon Musk's car company recommends in its emergency response guide. In the case of the June 9 Tesla fire in California, the car was seriously damaged in a crash about three weeks prior and was parked at a junkyard waiting to be dismantled when it started to burn. Investigators were working to figure out what caused the fire that took some 4,500 gallons of water to douse, but said there was no indication humans had sparked the blaze. The batteries can reignite hours or even days after an initial incident, with Tesla recommending the monitoring of battery temperatures for at least 24 hours after a fire. Fire crews around the world have had to learn the particularities of dealing with the tenacious fires in electric car batteries, and over 250,000 emergency responders in the United States have done training with NFPA, the fire prevention non-profit. “But I believe it's 1.1 million firefighters in the United States today," said Gorin, an NFPA program manager.