Participants wave their red scarves during the "Chupinazo" (start rocket) opening ceremony to mark the kick-off of the San Fermin Festival outside the Town Hall of Pamplona in northern Spain. AFP/Migue Riopa PAMPLONA - A red-and-white sea of revellers erupted in celebration on Wednesday, dousing each other with wine in a packed Pamplona square as Spain's most famous bull-running festival returned after a two-year absence due to the pandemic. The bedlam kicked off at noon with the firing of the "chupinazo" firecracker from the balcony of the northern city's town hall, which marks the official start of the nine-day San Fermin fiesta. Thousands of party-goers from around the world -- most dressed in the traditional all-white outfit with a red scarf -- responded ecstatically, screaming "Viva San Fermin!" and spraying each other with wine. Despite a light rain falling, the throng cheered wildly as they waved their red scarves in the air and passed giant yellow inflatable balls over their heads as scores looked on from crowded apartment balconies. "The rain doesn't matter. Seeing the square full again is terrific," said Saioa Guembe Pena, a 54-year-old civil servant whose white shirt was already stained pink with red wine and sangria. READ: Spain's Pamplona bull-run cancelled due to pandemic The annual festival, made famous by Ernest Hemingway's 1926 novel "The Sun Also Rises", was last held in 2019. Local officials called off the hugely popular event in 2020 and the following year because of the Covid-19 pandemic in what was the first time the festival had been cancelled since Spain's 1936-1939 civil war. Some 10,000 visitors packed into Pamplona's main square for the opening of this year's festivities, the town hall said, with thousands more packed into side streets and other squares to watch the opening on giant screens. The festival, which dates back to medieval times, features concerts, religious processions, folk dancing and round-the-clock drinking. But the highlight is the bracing daily test of courage against a thundering pack of half-tonne, sharp-horned bulls. Every day at 8am, hundreds of daredevils race with six fighting bulls along an 850-metre course from a holding pen to Pamplona's bull ring, which this year marks its 100th anniversary. The bravest -- or most foolhardy -- run as close as possible to the bulls' horns, preferably without being gored. The first bull run, which traditionally draws the largest number of participants, is on Thursday.