Former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon (R) speaks to reporters as he leaves the United States District Court House in Washington, DC on the first day of jury selection in his trial for contempt of Congress. AFP/Stefani Reynolds WASHINGTON - A jury was selected Monday for the trial of former Donald Trump advisor Steve Bannon for defying a subpoena to testify before lawmakers investigating the attack on the US Capitol. Bannon, who led Trump's successful 2016 presidential election campaign, was among dozens of people called by a congressional committee to testify about the 2021 storming of Congress by Trump supporters. The 68-year-old refused the summons and was indicted on two charges of contempt of Congress. A 22-person jury was selected on Monday to hear the case. The panel will be cut down to 12 jurors and two alternates on Tuesday, and opening arguments will begin in what is expected to be a speedy trial. READ: Ex-Trump advisor Bannon agrees to testify at Capitol riot hearings: reports Bannon's lawyers sought to delay the start of the trial so it would not take place at the same time as the House committee's public hearings into the Capitol attack, but the judge refused the request last week. Thousands of Trump supporters, many associated with ultra-nationalist and white supremacist groups, stormed the Capitol on January 6, 2021 in an effort to block the certification of Democrat Joe Biden's election victory. They had been egged on by Trump in a fiery speech near the White House, during which he repeated his false claims of election fraud. According to the House committee probing the riot, Bannon spoke to Trump the previous day. READ: Ex-Trump aide Steve Bannon arrested in border wall fraud case Investigators believe Bannon and other Trump advisors could have information on links between the White House and the rioters. After refusing to testify for months, Bannon finally agreed this month to cooperate with the House investigation, a move prosecutors said was a "last-ditch attempt to avoid accountability" by stalling his trial for contempt. Judge Carl Nichols ruled the trial should go ahead anyway, saying, "I see no reason for extending this case any longer." If convicted of contempt, Bannon faces a minimum sentence of 30 days and a maximum of one year in prison on each count. He was Trump's strategy chief at the White House before being sacked in 2017.