Crowning moment: Ferrari's Charles Leclerc on his way to victory at the Austrian Grand Prix. AFP/Joe Klamar PARIS - Charles Leclerc will seek to complete Ferrari's first hat-trick since 2019 by fending off world champion Max Verstappen and a likely threat from reinvigorated Lewis Hamilton at this weekend's French Grand Prix. The 24-year-old Leclerc, who battled to victory in Austria last time out after team-mate Carlos Sainz triumphed in Britain, is likely to enjoy strong support from a big holiday crowd sweltering in the merciless sunshine of south-eastern France. But he will need to overcome several challenges if he is to further trim Red Bull star Verstappen's 38-point advantage at the halfway mark in this 22-race season, not least from Sainz, who is keen to add to his maiden Silverstone success. Ferrari team chief Mattia Binotto has made clear he will not issue team orders to support Leclerc –- not yet, at least -– and with potent attacks expected from Sergio Perez, in the second Red Bull, and George Russell, in the second Mercedes, a tight, combative and dramatic race is in prospect. "We have closed the gap in terms of speed," said Binotto, of Ferrari's pursuit of Red Bull. "I think they still have a slight advantage, but very little, or negligible." Given the forecast high temperatures of close to 40 degrees, Ferrari's recent frailties could be exposed again as aerodynamics chief Diego Tondi suggested in a team preview. "The high temperatures mean that ensuring the power unit and the tyres perform at their best is a real challenge -- and it's up to those working on the aerodynamics to take the appropriate countermeasures," he said. Ferrari's hopes of an imposing one-two in Austria were wrecked by a late engine failure for Sainz while Leclerc's title challenge has suffered after four likely wins escaped him due to car failures or strategy errors. Well aware of the need for consistency, Binotto said he will avoid orders to favour either driver, but will prioritise the team's overall points haul at each race. "The fastest car on track is the one to be prioritised," he said. "By doing so, certainly at this time of the championship, it's the best thing. Later maybe one driver has an opportunity for full priority, but not right now – I'm happy to see them fighting."