US First Lady Jill Biden (R) looks on as US President Joe Biden walks to speak to reporters prior to boarding Air Force One at Buffalo Niagara International Airport. AFP/Nicholas Kamm BUFFALO - President Joe Biden on Tuesday called out what he branded the "poison" of white supremacist ideology behind a deadly mass shooting in Buffalo, New York, and said that racism is being stoked for political gain. Speaking in the city where a white teen is accused of murdering 10 African Americans in a neighbourhood supermarket, Biden said: "What happened here is simple and straightforward terrorism. Domestic terrorism." "White supremacy is a poison running through our body politic and it's been allowed to fester right in front of our eyes," Biden said, condemning "those who spread the lie for power, for political gain and for profit." READ: Biden visits site of mass shooting In a searing speech that also called for restrictions on ownership of assault-style rifles, Biden listed the victims, fighting tears as he recounted how one of the dead, named as 53-year-old Andre Mackniel, had been buying a birthday cake for his three-year-old son when the gunman entered the store. Biden's harshest comments were directed at what he described as the "perverse ideology" of white supremacists that police say inspired the shooter. In a manifesto, the alleged mass killer referred to the so-called "replacement theory" which claims the existence of a leftist plot to overwhelm the white population with non-white immigrants. READ: US in mourning, outrage after 'racist' mass shooting Biden described "a hate that through the media and politics (and) the internet has radicalized angry, alienated, lost and isolated individuals into falsely believing that they will be replaced -- that's the word, replaced -- by 'the other.'" "No more. I mean no more. We need to say as clearly and forcefully as we can that the ideology of white supremacy has no place in America," he said to applause. Earlier Tuesday, Biden and his wife Jill Biden laid a bouquet at a makeshift memorial outside the supermarket where the slaughter took place.