Culture Minister Dario Franceschini says Italian lyrical song 'provides light, strength and beauty in the darkest hours'. AFP/Andreas Solaro ROME - Opera originated in Italy, it was sung by Italian patriots and some of the world's greatest arias came from the peninsula. Now Rome wants credit where credit is due. Home to Scarlatti and Verdi, Italy has put in a bid for UNESCO -- the UN's cultural agency -- to recognise the art of Italian opera singing on its list of intangible global heritage. A decision is due at the end of the year. "Opera was born in Italy," said Stephane Lissner, the French director of the San Carlo theatre in Naples, which opened in 1737 and claims to be the oldest opera house in the world. After various experiments with musical theatre in the 16th century, opera came into being around 1600 in Florence, with the founding of an academy promoting an innovative combination of sung text and music. The first great composer of opera is considered to be Italy's Claudio Monteverdi, who lived from 1567 to 1643 -- and that was just the start. "If you look at the history of opera in the 18th century, there were 400 new compositions during that century" in Naples alone, Lissner told AFP. The southern city was, at the time, the capital of a kingdom run by the Bourbons. But why should Italian opera be a more legitimate entrant into UNESCO's hall of fame than its French or German counterparts? For Lissner, who also led the Scala in Milan and the Paris opera before taking the helm in Naples in 2020, there is no debate. 'Italian song has the ability to express emotions like no-one else can,' says baritone Gabriele Viviani "Singing in Italian... inspires the greatest emotion in opera lovers," he told AFP in an interview in the heady confines of the San Carlo, all red velvet chairs, shimmering lights and gilding. For Culture Minister Dario Franceschini, opera is one of Italy's "most authentic and original cultural expressions", one that has spread worldwide. He noted the moving scenes from the Ukrainian city of Odessa in March when locals took to the street to sing "Va, pensiero", the stirring Hebrew Slaves' Chorus from Verdi's Nabucco. He described this as "yet more proof of how Italian opera singing is an integral part of the world's cultural patrimony, which provides light, strength and beauty in the darkest hours".