Red Bull's Dutch driver Max Verstappen celebrates his 2021 title in Abu Dhabi. AFP/Andrej Isakovic MIAMI - World champion Max Verstappen will seek to ignore all the hype and razzmatazz this weekend when he bids to trim Charles Leclerc's lead with a third win of the season at the inaugural Miami Grand Prix. Fresh from victory at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix where he led Sergio Perez home in a resounding Red Bull one-two, the 24-year-old Dutchman arrives in Florida trailing championship leader Leclerc of Ferrari by 27 points. After four races, both drivers know there is a long way to go in the title race and will be aware that their long-awaited Formula One duel has captured the imagination ahead of Sunday's keenly-anticipated contest. Round five of the new era battle between a younger generation of racers takes place at the self-styled Miami International Autodrome, a fast street track built around car parks at the Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens. The stadium is, by rich irony, home to the NFL's Miami Dolphins whose name serves to remind F1's bruised drivers of the pain generated by their new ground effect cars this season as they bump up and down, 'porpoising' at high speeds on the straights. "It is an exciting new challenge and a step into the unknown," said Toto Wolff, team boss of champions Mercedes whose cars have suffered extreme porpoising this year. "The track looks demanding, with a real mix of low and high-speed corners, and it's set to be a spectacular showcase for the sport to a growing US fan base. We're set for a fantastic event." The race will be the first of two in America this year, adding to the successful United States Grand Prix held in Austin, Texas, and pre-event hype has drawn suggestions that it will be F1's answer to the Super Bowl, complete with A-list celebrities and vast crowded hospitality areas. A third American race in Las Vegas is scheduled to join the calendar next year. "I think this weekend is going to be pretty crazy," said Verstappen. "I'm looking forward to the racing -- I've driven the track on the simulator and we've practiced and prepared as much as we can without visiting in real life. "I love racing in Austin, so it's fun that we get to go to another state exciting to see F1 getting so much bigger in the US." "It looks positive," said Alfa Romeo's Valtteri Bottas, when asked about the track layout and prospects for good racing. "Let's see how it goes in real life. To me, on paper, it looked good. As an event, I'm sure it will be amazing." 