Johnny Depp listens to testimony in the defamation case the actor filed against his ex-wife Amber Heard. AFP/Pool LOS ANGELES - Johnny Depp was to have been paid $22.5-million for a sixth "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie but the project was scrapped by Disney after his ex-wife Amber Heard accused him of domestic abuse in a Washington Post op-ed, the actor's agent said on Monday. Jack Whigham, testifying on behalf of Depp at the celebrity couple's high-profile defamation trial in Virginia, said the Post op-ed was "catastrophic" for Depp's Hollywood career. "After the op-ed it was impossible to get him a studio film," Whigham told the seven-person jury hearing the case in Fairfax County Circuit Court. Whigham, who has been Depp's agent since 2016, said that a deal had been reached with Disney for the actor to appear as Captain Jack Sparrow in a sixth installment of the lucrative "Pirates" franchise. "We closed the deal on $22.5-million," he said. But Disney decided to go in a "different direction" following the December 2018 publication of the op-ed in the Post, Whigham said. "I successfully made contact with them, but I was not successful in rescuing Pirates for Johnny," he said. Depp filed a defamation case against Heard over the column she wrote for the Post in which she described herself as a "public figure representing domestic abuse." The 36-year-old Heard, who had a starring role in "Aquaman," never named the 58-year-old Depp but he sued her for implying he was a domestic abuser and is seeking $50-million in damages. US actress Amber Heard in court at the defamation trial filed against her by her ex-husband Johnny Depp Whigham also listed Depp's compensation for a number of other movies he made in 2017. He said he received $8-million for "City of Lies," $10-million for Murder on the Orient Express" and $13.5-million for "Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald." In 2018, Depp was paid $3.5-million for "The Professor," an independent film, and $1-million for "Waiting for the Barbarians," another indie movie. In January 2019, he was to have been paid $3-million for a film called "Minamata," the agent said. "It was very, very difficult to keep Minamata together," Whigham said. "The financing became shaky, the budget had to come down, Johnny's fee came down in order to save the movie." 