Jubilee flags and decorations are displayed in the streets of Bidford-On-Avon, central England as preparations get underway for the forthcoming Platinum Jubilee celebrations for Queen Elizabeth II. AFP/Ben Stansall LONDON - Next weekend, people across the UK and beyond will celebrate the 96-year-old queen's Platinum Jubilee, marking her 70th year on the throne. And in the little village of Bidford-on-Avon, everything has to be perfect for the occasion. Here, as in most parts of the UK, Queen Elizabeth II remains extremely popular, and a small team of volunteers are putting in long hours to make sure the event is one to remember. READ: UK readies for Queen Elizabeth II's Platinum Jubilee "I wake up at three or four o'clock in the morning, and I suddenly think of something that we might have forgotten to order," said Suze Meredith, chair of the village's Platinum Jubilee committee. With just days left before the celebrations start, she is working against the clock to get everything ready on time. Her role in this pretty village in central England has been "full-time for three months", she told AFP. READ: Queen Elizabeth II attends Jubilee celebration after health concerns Every detail has been attended to for the long weekend from June 2 to 5, over which the celebrations will run. The village is also holding a cake competition and opening a Jubilee garden where several time capsules will be buried -- one to be reopened in 50 years' time -- recording aspects of life in 2022. The celebrations will culminate Sunday with a street party with a band playing, Irish dancers and Morris men, a children's fairground ride and refreshments. READ: Hoppy and glorious: Brewery bets on Queen's Jubilee beer rush The streets of neighbouring Alcester village are also decked with red-white-and-blue pennants and large portraits of the Queen against a background of Union Jack flags. Village shops have window displays featuring commemorative mugs and other china, teaspoons from the 1981 wedding of Prince Charles and Diana -- even two little porcelain corgis (the Queen's favourite dogs).