Johnny Depp arrives for closing arguments in the defamation case filed against his former wife Amber Heard FAIRFAX - A lawyer for actor Johnny Depp urged a jury on Friday to find his ex-wife Amber Heard guilty of defamation over domestic abuse allegations and give him his "life back." "What is at stake in this trial is a man's good name," Camille Vasquez, an attorney for the "Pirates of the Caribbean" star, said in closing arguments in Fairfax County Circuit Court near the US capital. "We ask you to give Mr Depp his life back, to tell the world that Mr Depp is not the abuser Miss Heard said he is and to hold Miss Heard accountable for her lies," Vasquez said. "The evidence shown in this trial has shown that Miss Heard is the abuser," she added. "She was violent, she was abusive and she was cruel." Amber Heard speaks to one of her lawyers in Fairfax County Circuit Courthouse Lawyers for the two sides are making their closing arguments following six weeks of blistering mutual accusations of domestic violence between the couple. Judge Penney Azcarate will give the case over to the seven-person jury Friday afternoon. The panel will be off over the weekend and on Monday, a public holiday, and resume deliberations on Tuesday. The 58-year-old Depp filed a defamation suit against Heard in Virginia over an op-ed she wrote for The Washington Post in December 2018 in which she described herself as a "public figure representing domestic abuse." Johnny Depp (R) waves to fans as her arrives for closing arguments in the defamation trial against his former wife Amber Heard The Texas-born Heard, who had a starring role in "Aquaman," did not name Depp in the piece, but he sued her for implying he was a domestic abuser and is seeking $50 million in damages. The 36-year-old Heard countersued for $100 million, claiming that she suffered "rampant physical violence and abuse" at his hands. Dozens of witnesses testified during the trial, including bodyguards, Hollywood executives, agents, entertainment industry experts, psychiatrists, doctors, friends and relatives.  - 'Monster' -  Amber Heard listens to testimony during the defamation case filed against her by Johnny Depp Depp and Heard each spent days on the witness stand during the televised trial which attracted hundreds of fans of the "Pirates" star daily. Video and audio recordings of heated, profanity-laced arguments between the couple were played for the jury, which was also shown photographs of injuries allegedly suffered by Heard during their volatile relationship. Hours of testimony featuring medical experts was devoted to a finger injury that Depp suffered while filming an installment of "Pirates" in Australia in March 2015. Depp claimed the tip of the middle finger on his right hand was severed when Heard threw a vodka bottle at him. Heard said she did not know how the injury occurred. Both agreed that Depp went on to scrawl messages on walls, lampshades and mirrors using the bloody digit. Heard said Depp would become a physically and sexually abusive "monster" during alcohol- and drug-fueled binges and resisted her repeated efforts to curb his drinking and drug use. Johhny Depp at the Fairfax County Circuit Courthouse Heard said Depp had promised to bring her "global humiliation" if she left him, and she has been the target of a vast #JusticeForJohnnyDepp social media campaign. Depp testified that it has been "brutal" to listen to his ex-wife's "outlandish" accusations of domestic abuse. "No human being is perfect, certainly not, none of us, but I have never in my life committed sexual battery, physical abuse," he said.  - Damaged Hollywood careers -  Heard, who was married to Depp from 2015 to 2017, obtained a restraining order against him in May 2016, citing domestic violence. Judge Penney Azcarate is presiding over the defamation case between Johnny Depp and his ex-wife Amber Heard Depp, a three-time Oscar nominee, filed a libel suit in London against the British tabloid The Sun for calling him a "wife-beater." He lost that case in November 2020. Both sides have claimed damage to their Hollywood careers. Heard's legal team presented an entertainment industry expert who estimated that the actress has suffered $45-50 million in lost film and TV roles and endorsements. An industry expert hired by Depp's side said the actor has lost millions because of the abuse accusations, including a potential $22.5 million payday for a sixth installment of "Pirates." cl/ec By Amel Semmache With Chris Lefkow In Washington